

                                 SPIDER-MAN




                                screenplay by

                        Ted Newsom and John Brancato



                       based on characters created by

                                  Stan Lee







                                                                 First Draft
                                                            November 24,1985

                                                            For Cannon Films
                                                       6464 Sunset Boulevard
                                                      Los Angeles, CA  90028

INT.  BASEMENT - DAY


A SINGLE GLISTENING STRAND OF A SPIDER’S WEB BISECTS THE BLACK FRAME.  AS
CLASSICAL MUSIC CARESSES OUR EARS, WE SEE THE STRAND CRISS-CROSSING OTHERS
IN A PERFECT ORB WEB.  A SPIDER-- BLACK WITH AN INTRICATE PATTERN-- DROPS
INTO FRAME. IT GRACEFULLY GATHERS AND WEAVES THE STRANDS TOGETHER.


The web and spider become small, a gray mass against a basement ceiling
corner. The  further BACK we go, the grimier the scene becomes:   peeling
industrial green paint, tangles of pipes and electrical cable, harsh
lighting.


We hear a low WHIR, the pitch growing higher-- a cyclotron.  The colossal
donut-shaped accelerator dominates the basement lab.  It’s a cylindrical,
metallic tube, suspended from the ceiling, with wires and fixtures over its
length.  Utilitarian, a patchwork of technology from the 40s to the 80s,
with radioactivity warnings.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


A STEEL AND GLASS CHAMBER IS BUILT AROUND AND BELOW A SECTION OF THE
CYCLOTRON.  METAL SHELVES OF EQUIPMENT, A LARGE ELECTRICAL TRANSFORMER WITH
HEAVY CABLES LEADING TO IT FROM THE FLOOR.


A three-fingered mechanical claw-- a “waldo”-- thrusts INTO FRAME. Its
telescoping arm extends, lifts a tiny one-gram cylinder from a rack of
standard weights on a shelf.  Another waldo holds a lead canister, a third
removes a sealed vial containing a thick, muddy liquid.  A fourth arm
reaches up to adjust a crystal focusing cone, which juts out from  the
cyclotron tube.  The arm aims the cone at a digital scale on a table in the
center of the room.


The four waldos are mounted on a panel with a thick, clear pane above it.
Through the glass, a shadowy figure manipulates the controls.  A fibrous
BLUE-WHITE BEAM erupts from the cone, focusing on the weight & the TITLES
END.


INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY


THE WHIR IS MUFFLED NOW, THE MUSIC LOUD FROM A STEREO IN THE CONTROL ROOM.
A VIDEO MONITOR SHOWS A WALDO PLACING THE GRAM WEIGHT ON A SCALE; A DIGITAL
READ-OUT BESIDE THE SCREEN JUMPS FROM 0.000000 TO 1.000000. A COMPUTER
SCREEN DISPLAYS IRREGULAR, COLORED PATTERNS DESCRIBING THE DOWNWARD ARCS OF
SUB-ATOMIC PARTICLES.  A DIGITAL CLOCK:  8:57 AM.  A HALF-EATEN CHILI DOG
LIES ON THE CONTROL PANEL.


DR. OTTO OCTAVIUS (“DOC OCK”) manipulates the waldo controls.  In his 50s,
Ock is broad, thickly-featured, brooding, with unfashionably long hair. He
wears a stained sweatshirt, protective goggles. Without interrupting his
concentration, he lights a fresh cigarette from the butt of the last, and
takes a bite of the chili dog.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY - DAY


ALEXANDER THORKEL AND SOLOMON ROSOMOFF (ROZ) ENTER FROM A FLIGHT OF STAIRS.
 TALL, THIN, 40, THORKEL WEARS HORN-RIMMED GLASSES AND A BROOKS BROTHERS
SUIT.  ROZ, A PROFESSOR OF ASTROPHYSICS, WALKS SPRYLY DESPITE HIS 75 YEARS.
THE MEN HEAD TO THE DOOR AT THE END OF THE HALL:  “CYCLOTRON, AUTHORIZED
PERSONNEL ONLY.”


                            THORKEL
                 I’m sorry to bother you, Professor.  But the man is
                 impossible.


                            ROZ
                 He has his reasons, Thorkel.  At the moment, he has
                 something to prove.


                            THORKEL
                 He refused to open the door.


                            ROZ
                 Maybe he didn’t hear you knock.


Thorkel snorts.  Roz fishes a card-key from his tweeds, inserts it into the
lock.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM - DAY


THE DOOR BUZZES OPEN.


                            THORKEL
                 You’ll be late for class, Dr. Octavius.


Roz sighs.  Ock doesn’t turn around.  Thorkel snaps the MUSIC OFF.


                            THORKEL
                 The University pays you to teach.


Ock twists a dial, the WHIR increases in pitch, the light grows more
intense. Thorkel frowns.  Ock notices Roz-- a look of understanding between
them.


                            ROZ
                 Otto, I don’t like Thorkel any more than you do.  But he
                 has got a point.


                            OCK
                 Rosomoff, I have better things to do than teach
                 Introductory Physics to mindless adolescents.


                            ROZ
                 Perhaps. But every now and then someone pays attention.
                 You did.


Thorkel looks at his watch.  Ock sighs and snaps a switch.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


THE FOUR WALDOS PULL BACKWARD AND HANG LIMPLY. THE WHIR WINDS DOWN.


EXT.  7TH AVENUE - DAY


THE DIESEL ENGINE OF A BUS WINDS DOWN AS IT PULLS UP.  THE DOORS HISS OPEN.
 SNEAKERED FEET BOUND DOWN THE BUS STEPS INTO FRAME, ONTO THE SIDEWALK.
THE YOUNG MAN IN THE SNEAKERS, PETER PARKER, PASSES A BANK CLOCK THAT READS
9:02. INTELLIGENT, 20, WITH DARK HAIR AND RIMLESS GLASSES, PETER IS NEITHER
A NERD NOR A MALE MODEL.  DRABLY DRESSED IN JEANS AND A BUTTON-DOWN SHIRT,
HE CARRIES A BOOK-FILLED BACKPACK OVER ONE SHOULDER, A STYROFOAM CUP OF
COFFEE IN THE OPPOSITE HAND. YAWNING, HE HURRIES DOWN THE AVENUE.


EXT.  GREENWICH VILLAGE STREET - DAY


PETER HEADS DOWN A SIDE STREET TOWARD AN INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING. A SIGN
READS:  “CURTIS CONNORS SCIENCE CENTER,” AND BELOW, “EMPIRE STATE
UNIVERSITY.”  SOOT, NOT IVY, COVERS THE BRICK WALLS.


int.  science center lecture hall -day


LOOKING DOWN OVER TIERS OF BUILT-IN CHAIRS TO A PODIUM AND BLACKBOARD
FLANKED BY DOORS.  SOMBER, TRADITIONAL ACADEMIA.  THE HALF-FILLED CLASS
SETTLES AS PETER ENTERS AND LOOKS UP TOWARD THE HIGHER ROWS.


A weird kid in the first row-- HARRY OSBORN -- waves at Peter. Slight and
awkward, Harry has nervous mannerisms and a garish heavy metal T-shirt.


                            HARRY
                 Hiya Peter!


Peter gives him a perfunctory wave.  He climbs up toward the back row,
where LIZ ALLEN sits with feet on the empty chair in front of her,
seemingly absorbed in a dog-eared Jane Austin novel. Her style reflects a
quirky sense of humor:  floppy hot-pink sweater over a brilliant purple
dress; brightly-striped knee socks with clashing ballet slippers; colorful
jewelry.


Liz is the single bright spot in this otherwise drab environment.  Without
looking up from her book, she folds her legs up for Peter to pass.  He sits
discretely one seat away from her, lays his backpack beside her.  Peter
eyes Liz over his coffee, clearly pleased to see her.


                            PETER
                 Good morning, Liz.


                            LIZ
                 How very dull, Peter Parker.


                            PETER
                 It’s too early to be clever.


She unzips his backpack and toys with his Nikon.


                            LIZ
                 It’s never too early to be clever.  Describe in a sentence
                 how you feel about me.


                            PETER
                 Huh?


                            LIZ
                 Fill in the blank: “I blank Elizabeth Allan.”


                            PETER
                 I-- uh--


                            LIZ
                 Uh is a good start.


                            PETER
                 I lov-loathe Elizabeth Allan. Abhor, detest, despise--


                            LIZ
                 Oh.  Well, I hate you and everyone who looks like you.


Down below, Doc Ock rumbles in, cigarette dangling from his lips, and slams
his notes down on the podium.  There’s a “NO SMOKING” sign behind him.  He
starts his lecture as Liz and Peter continue their rapid parry and thrust.


                            PETER
                 I hate the Platonic idea of you.


                            LIZ
                 I hate people with alliterative names.


                            PETER
                 I hate--


                            LIZ
                 I hate your relatives, I hate your coffee, I hate your
                 shoes.


                            OCK
                       (barely audible; BG)
                 As you’ll doubtless recall, there are four known forces in
                 the universe--


                            PETER
                 Not my coffee.


She puts his camera down and grabs his cup, takes a sip.


                            LIZ
                 No.  I was lying about the coffee.


                            PETER
                 Thank God.


Liz looks deep into his eyes.  It’s the first time she’s looked at him.


                            OCK (cont., OS)
                 The strong force, which binds matter together; the weak
                 force, which causes decay; electromagnetism; and gravity--


                            LIZ
                       (melodramatic)
                 I was lying about it all, Peter.  I love you.  Ever since
                 the third grade, I’ve loved you, I’ve wanted you. I dream
                 of you, night and day, my very being o’erbrims with a
                 burning passion for you.


Peter wishes this were true.  Suddenly FLASH THOMPSON dips INTO FRAME and
covers Liz’s mouth in a wet kiss.  Peter looks away, grossed out.


                            OCK (cont.)
                 -- gravity, Newtonian theory uses a simple equation with a
                 constant--


Flash dumps the pack on Peter’s lap, then climbs into the chair beside Liz
and throws his arm around her.  She tries to catch Peter’s eye, as if to
apologize-- but he avoids her look.


                            OCK
                 -- which we all know by heart-- Don’t we, Mr. Thompson!


Flash grabs Peter’s notes without missing a beat, holds them out of view
and reads.


                            FLASH
                 Natch, Doc.  That’s… 6.670 time 10 to the negative
                 eleventh.


                            OCK
                       (eyeing him)
                 In what quantity?


Flash tries to decipher the hidden notes.


                            HARRY
                 Meters cubed over kilogram-seconds squared!


Flash curls his lip.  Peter retrieves his notes, clucks his tongue at
Flash.


                            PETER
                 Crime doesn’t pay, Flash.


INT. READING ROOM - DAY


EARLY AFTERNOON.  THE LONG TABLES OF THE OAK-PANELED LIBRARY ARE CROWDED
WITH STUDYING STUDENTS.  A PRINT OF A FOX HUNTING SCENE HANGS ABOVE A
MANTELPIECE.  A FAT MALE LIBRARIAN SITS AT A DESK. WE DOLLY IN TO PICK OUT
PETER PARKER, SLOUCHING IN A CHAIR WITH A NOTEBOOK IN HIS LAP. HE SNIFFS
SOMETHING, LOOKS AROUND, AND SEES:


HARRY in the stacks, dragging a small cloth bag over the floor and
bookshelves.


Peter rolls his eyes.  Harry crosses to the table at the far end from
Peter,  He slides the squirming bag down the table like a whiskey glass in
a saloon.  Peter grabs the bag in mid-slide, shakes his head “No,” silently
but firmly.  Harry grins crazily and nods, Oh,  yes!”  Sensing mischief,
the librarian glances up.  Peter heads into the stacks with the bag,
pursued by Harry.  They whisper:


                            PETER
                 You maniac.  You’ll blow your scholarship.


                            HARRY
                 They’ll never take me alive.


Peter ducks as the librarian passes.  Harry snatches the bag back,
artistically swipes the man’s rump with it.  The librarian doesn’t notice.


                            PETER
                 What’s in there?


                            HARRY
                 A little bunny I saved from dissection.


                            PETER
                 Harry!


Roz walks past, looks at Peter, who waves nervously.


                            ROZ
                 Mr. Parker.


                            PETER
                 Hi, Professor.  What’s up?


Harry scrambles atop stack “H-K” by a window.  A tape deck sits at the
ready.


                            ROZ
                 You tell me.


Roz sees Harry signal out the window--


EXT.  LIBRARY - DAY


A VAN MARKED “RUTLAND’S COMPLEAT HUNTER”  PARKED BY THE STEPS.  TWO MEN IN
RED HUNTING JACKETS RETURN HARRY’S SIGNAL AND OPEN THE VAN DOORS.


INT.  READING ROOM - DAY


HARRY CLICKS ON THE TAPE PLAYER-- A HUNTING TRUMPET, ROUSING EVERYONE IN
THE LIBRARY.


A dozen baying basset hounds rush in, following the scent over tables,
under chairs, upsetting everything in their wake.  Pandemonium:  students
laugh, applaud, some join in the chase.  Dogs pursue the librarian, who
falls, overturning a bookcase.  Peter smiles in spite of himself.  Roz
claps.


From atop his bookcase, Harry watches it all proudly.  The scent bag’s
still in his hand.  The dogs pick up on it, leaping and yelping at him.


EXT.  WASHINGTON PARK - DAY


LATE AFTERNOON.  PETER AND LIZ CROSS THE PARK TOWARD A PRETZEL VENDOR.


                            PETER
                 -- but the dogs treed him between Huxley and Kafka.


                            LIZ
                 Poor Harry.  Always desperate for attention.  What about
                 the bunny?


                            PETER
                 Back to the lab.  Harry’ll probably lose his scholarship.


Peter pays for two pretzels-- two dollars and no change. He winces a
little.  She takes a bite of pretzel.


                            LIZ
                 He’ll weasel out of trouble.  Again.


                            PETER
                 Maybe.  I could have stopped it, though.


                            LIZ
                 Since you’re feeling guilty, why not donate your pretzel to
                 somebody who needs it?


She gestures over her shoulder toward a derelict.  A tacky, blatantly
sexual woman in her early 20s-- KIM-- wiggles past the bum in question.


                            PETER
                 My my.


                            LIZ
                 Yeah.  Really gets to you if you let it.


Liz looks past Peter into the distance.


                            PETER
                 I suppose.


                            LIZ
                 You want to give them something, but they’ll just buy more
                 Ripple.  And they smell so…bad.


                            PETER
                 What?


Peter looks at Liz, puzzled and amused.  She waves toward the Washington
Square arch, where Flash gets out of his double-parked MG. His eyes follow
Kim’s rear, he pants lasciviously.


                            LIZ
                 God, Flash can be such a jerk.


                            PETER
                 But you like that in a man?


                            LIZ
                 You should write that one down.


                            PETER
                 “Flash,” Liz.  You’re going out with something that calls
                 itself “Flash.”


                            LIZ
                 Some prep school thing.


                            PETER
                 Does it have a human name?


                            LIZ
                 Eugene.  Admit it, Peter-- you’d do anything for a nickname
                 like “Flash.”


                            PETER
                 I’d never admit that.


                            LIZ
                 Hurry up, Flash!


She stops. She looks at Flash, then back at Peter.


                            LIZ
                 What are you doing this weekend?


                            PETER
                 I’ve gotta study.


                            LIZ
                 Oh. Maybe I should, too--


                            FLASH
                 Lizzy!


                            LIZ
                 I was sort of hoping to get out of--


                            FLASH
                 I’m parked illegally!


Liz purses her lips, then hurries to Flash, gets into his car.  As the MG
speeds away, she turns in the passenger seat, watching Peter recede into
the distance.


EXT.  BUGLE OFFICES -DAY


A 1940S OFFICE BUILDING, THE KIND WITH PITTED LINOLEUM AND SMELLY
ELEVATORS.  A  FADED PLASTIC SIGN IN A FOURTH FLOOR WINDOW READS “THE
BUGLE, NEW YORK’S FAVORITE TABLOID.”


                            JAMESON (VO)
                 No.  No.  Forget it.


INT.  JAMESON’S OFFICE - DAY


A HAND SORTS THROUGH 8X10 B&W PHOTOS:  A BAG LADY WITH A SHOPPING CART--


                            JAMESON
                 Too artsy.


Peter looks over Jameson’s shoulder, collecting the rejects in mounting
frustration. Next is a wacky sign, such as “HAPPIE FUNERAL HOME--“


                            JAMESON
                 Too dumb.


Peter makes a gesture as if to throttle Jameson.  The next photo shows a
mohawked punk in a business suit with a briefcase--


                            JAMESON
                 Too hip.  Your photos suck, kid.


                            PETER
                 I think you’re trying to tell me something.


J.JONAH JAMESON is 50, greying, sour-faced, cigar-chewing.  Unlike the
gruff-but-benign stereotype, publisher Jameson is a bastard to the last.
Framed photos of celebrities, biological freaks and aliens line the walls.
Papers and rotting coffee cups clutter his ratty desk; sluggish activity
out in the main office.  The feel is cynical exhaustion:  the Bugle is the
dregs of the newspaper world


BETTY, Jameson’s 30-ish assistant, enters with a layout on boards. She
looks Peter over.  Peter doesn’t notice, holding up the bag lady photo.


                            PETER
                 Think of the cutline:  “Bag lady makes millions recycling
                 cans!”


Betty grins; Jameson considers it, then shakes his head.  He signs the
boards “JJJ.”


                            JAMESON
                 Bring me some stuff that’ll grab the morons, something
                 like, like--


Jameson holds up the front-page board, featuring a bus teetering on
abridge, with a huge headline, ‘BUS PLUNGE KILLS 20.”  He grins proudly.


                            PETER
                 Come on, that’s pure luck!  The guy was in the right place
                 at the right time--


                            JAMESON
                 You make your own luck, Parker! Get into the middle of
                 things, spend every day pounding the pavement of  the
                 city’s mean streets--


                            BETTY
                 But you’re a full-time student, right?


                            PETER
                 My scholarship only covers books and tuition, so I’ve got
                 to freelance to--


                            JAMESON
                 Save the chit-chat for the singles’ bar.  Now out, both of
                 you.


Betty sticks her tongue out at Jameson and opens the door for Peter.


EXT.  PETER’S APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING


A SEEDY EAST VILLAGE WALK-UP.  PETER COLLECTS HIS MAIL, UNLOCKS THE OUTSIDE
DOOR.


INT.   PETER’S HALLWAY - EVENING


PANTING, PETER CLIMBS THE LAST FLIGHT TO HIS STUDIO LOFT, MUTTERING AT HIS
BILLS.  AT THE HEAD OF THE STAIRS, HE STOPS.  HIS DOOR IS AJAR.  HE TAKES A
DEEP BREATH, CLUTCHING THE KEYS BETWEEN HIS FINGERS AS A WEAPON.


                            PETER
                 There’s nothing in there worth stealing!


                            MAY
                       (from within)
                 That’s the understatement of the year.


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT - EVENING


A ONE-ROOM, EAVED APARTMENT, A CHAOS OF BOOKS AND PAPERS.  A PHOTO ENLARGER
AND DARKROOM BATHS IN KITCHEN POTS; 8X10S TACKED TO THE WALLS; A SPARE
CAMERA AND LENSES.  SELF-CONSCIOUSLY WACKY KITSCH: PLASTIC DINOSAURS, WIND-
UP TOYS, A STUFFED CARP.  AN UNMADE BED AND A 50S DINETTE SET ARE THE ONLY
FURNITURE.  A GRIMY SKYLIGHT LEADS TO THE ROOF.  IT’S NOT A PRETTY PLACE,
BUT IT HAS PERSONALITY.


A slim, sharp-featured woman in her 50s kneels by the stereo-- AUNT MAY.
In stylish slacks and jacket, she radiates vigor and poise.  Peter enters,
tosses his backpack and bills on the formica table.


                            PETER
                 Aunt May, you’re trespassing.


                            MAY
                 Your records are older than you are.  Have you never heard
                 of new wave?


Peter sprawls in a plastic chair.  May shrugs and settles for a Beatles
album.  Moving fast, she crosses toward him, leans to kiss his forehead and
stops, stares, points at a pimple near his hairline.


                            PETER
                 When I moved out, you swore up and down you wouldn’t meddle-
                 -


                            MAY
                 Oh, Peter. A zit.


Annoyed, he brushes his hair over the offending spot.  May crosses lithely
to the kitchenette, where a grocery bag sits on the counter.


                            MAY
                 I wasn’t meddling.  I was just so desperately bored I
                 thought I’d come over and make you dinner--


She tosses him a fresh apple from the bag, he bites a chunk out of it.


                            PETER
                 I am old enough to--


                            MAY
                 --but I didn’t feel like getting to know your roaches.


                            PETER
                 I’ll introduce you.


                            MAY
                 Ick.  And those foul chemicals in the pots--


                            PETER
                 I’m a photographer, remember?


                            MAY
                 Anyway, I’ve decided to kidnap you for dinner in Forest
                 Hills--


She grabs her coat, crosses to Peter and tugs on his shoulder.


                            PETER
                 It’s Friday night…


                            MAY
                 Yes.  Do you have a date?


                            PETER
                 No.


She pulls his chair toward the door, he gets up,laughing.


                            PETER
                 The record--


                            MAY
                       (already in the hallway)
                 It’ll shut itself off.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - NIGHT


A WALDO WITHDRAWS FROM THE GRAM WEIGHT.  THE CYCLOTRON WHIRS, LIGHT BEAMS
DOWN ON THE TINY METAL CYLINDER FROM A CRYSTAL FOCUSING CONE.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


OCK CHAIN-SMOKES, HALF-WATCHING THE COLORED PARTICLE PATTERNS, SCRIBBLING
NOTES. QUICK READOUTS:  “80% ENERGY CAPACITY,” “STANDARD PARTICLE
ACCELERATION,” ETC.  THE MASS REMAINS STABLE AT 1.0000000.  THE CLOCK READS
6:34.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER - NIGHT


THORKEL AND  WORKER WITH A TOOL BELT ENTER THE RED-BRICK BUILDING.


INT. CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN, A SINGLE STREAK GLOWS RED AND ARCS UPWARD WITH A
MUSICAL TONE.  A READOUT:  “PLEASE AVOID SYSTEM OVERLOAD. THANK YOU.”  OCK
TWISTS A RHEOSTAT TO CRANK UP THE POWER.  MORE RED STREAKS AND TONES.  THE
READOUT:  “NEGATIVE GRAVITATION ACHIEVED.”


Elation fills Octavius. He stands up and takes a deep breath. The digital
mass counter fluctuates between 1.0000000 to 0.9999999.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT


THORKEL AND THE WORKER WALK DOWN THE HALL.  ANIMAL NOISES FROM BEHIND A
DOOR.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


OCK STANDS, ARMS CROSSED.  THE READ-OUTS ARE NORMAL AGAIN: NO TONES, NO
MASS FLUCTUATION. THORKEL ENTERS, SHIELDING HIS EYES.  OCTAVIUS TURNS,
LIFTS HIS GOGGLES.


                            OCK
                 Ha.  Anti-gravitational particles.


                            THORKEL
                 Power down.  I need to talk to you.


                            OCK
                 Proof.  Proof of a unified field.  Not just theory and
                 equations-- experimental proof.


                            THORKEL
                 Let’s talk in the hall.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT


THE WORKER CROUCHES, UNSCREWING A PANEL NEAR THE DOOR.  IGNORING THIS,
OCTAVIUS CROSSES TO THORKEL, A FEW YARDS FROM THE DOOR.


                            OCK
                 In this obsolete little cyclotron, I’m solving the greatest
                 physics problem of the 20th Century.  With more power, I
                 could--


                            THORKEL
                 I’ve had an extremely bad day, Octavius.  A sophomoric
                 prank in the library and punitive measures.


Behind them, the worker continues.  Thorkel glances at him, keeps stalling.


                            THORKEL (cont.)
                 Then the alumni reports came in-- fund-raising is down this
                 year.


                            OCK
                 I couldn’t care less.  What I’ve done is--


The worker looks at Thorkel and nods, walks off.  Thorkel follows.


                            THORKEL
                 What you’ve done is make the entire physics department look
                 foolish.  You compare yourself to Einstein; your colleagues
                 compare you to Bozo the Clown.


                            OCK
                 This is the unified field!  All the forces of the universe
                 tied together-- perfectly!


Thorkel pauses at the foot of the staircase, his voice echoes down the
hall.


                            THORKEL
                 You’ve used up your grant. The electric bills alone exceed
                 your annual salary.  Not to mention the potential hazards
                 of your radioactive fuel.


                            OCK
                 I don’t care.
                       (under his breath)
                 Cretin.


Ock crosses back to the cyclotron door, pulls out his card key.


                            THORKEL
                 You’re denied access to the cyclotron.


The lock spits out Ock’s card, a red light flashes once.  He stares at it
in disbelief.


                            OCK
                 You changed the lock.


Thorkel heads up the stairs.  Anger wells up in Ock.


                            THORKEL
                 That Nobel Prize will just have to wait.


                            OCK
                 No!


He bangs his fist on the door, causing the unseen lab animals to SCREAM.


INT.  MAY’S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


THE SOUND OF FANS SCREAMING ON A TV BASEBALL GAME.  A REFRIGERATOR SLAMS
O.S.


Peter sits on the couch, feet propped on a coffee table.  The lower-middle-
class home reflects May’s personality:  her own odd landscapes on the
walls, crude sculptures, macramé hangings.  There is too much furniture:
an agglomeration of once-trendy pieces dating from the 40s to the present.


BEN enters from the kitchen, a can of beer in each hand.  Ben is 60,
happily overweight, a gentle, good-natured working stiff with a mild
Brooklyn accent.  He wears trousers, sports shirt and slippers.


                            BEN
                 Here you go, Pete.


                            PETER
                 Uh, Uncle Ben, I--


                            BEN
                       (solicitous)
                 What, want a glass?


                            PETER
                 No. No, that’s okay.


Ben sits back in his comfy chair in the corner, with a magazine rack, a row
of pipes, and a print of dogs playing poker.  He pops open his beer.


                            BEN
                 So, uh… how’s college goin’?


                            PETER
                 Same old stuff.
                       (beat)
                 How’s the pharmacy?


                            BEN
                 Ah, ya know.  Neighborhood’s not what it used to be.  Kid
                 no more’n five swiped a candy bar the other day.


                            PETER
                 You stop him?


                            BEN
                 Wasn’t worth gettin’ upset over a Milky Way.  Anyways, I
                 was never much for, ya know, discipline.


                            PETER
                 I know.  Still thinking about retiring?


                            BEN
                 Eh.  If I ever get out from under.  Maybe take May to
                 France or somethin’.


An awkward pause; they both know it’ll never happen.  They look at the TV.


                            BEN
                 Ya still follow the Mets, Pete?


                            PETER
                 No…not really.


                            BEN
                 S’funny.  When your mom and dad, uh, passed away, I had
                 this idea.  I wanted you to be the best baseball player in
                 the world.


                            PETER
                 Remember Little League?


                            BEN
                 Yeah, Babe Ruth you wasn’t.


They laugh.  Another awkward pause. Peter pops open his beer, sips it
distastefully.


                            BEN
                 Ya set for, uh, ya know-- money?


                            PETER
                 Oh, sure.


                            BEN
                 Cause if you get in a bind--


                            PETER
                 No, no.


                            BEN
                 Yeah, ya like to do things on your own
                       (beat)
                 I been thinkin’ lately.  Maybe I wasn’t the, ya know,
                 greatest dad--


                            PETER
                 Oh, come on, Ben ,that’s not--


                            BEN
                 -- no, I mean… we… your Aunt May not wantin’ kids and all…
                 I mean we both…


The front door opens.  May enters with a pizza box, looks at Ben’s
expression.


                            MAY
                 You’re not getting maudlin again.


She crosses to the kitchen.  Peter looks relieved.


                            BEN
                 When you won that scholarship, I was proud of you.


                            PETER
                 I know.


                            BEN
                 I’m always here, Pete.


May re-enters, playing an imaginary violin.  She flips off the TV,  crosses
back to the kitchen. Peter and Ben follow, Ben pats Peter’s shoulder.


INT.  MAY’S KITCHEN - NIGHT


COPPER POTS, STRINGS OF GARLIC. ON THE TABLE SITS A PLASTIC PHOTO CUBE,
FULL OF SHOTS OF PETER:  BABY, CUTE KID, GEEKY HIGH SCHOOLER WITH GLASSES
AND BRACES.  MAY GETS PAPER PLATES; PETER STARES INTO THE PIZZA BOX; BEN
OPENS THE FRIDGE FOR ANOTHER BEER.


                            PETER
                 What the hell is that?


                            MAY
                 Tofu.  Ben, I wish you wouldn’t.


Peter watches Ben as they all sit down to eat.  Ben opens the can.


                            BEN
                 I like beer. Helps take the edge off around here.


Peter changes the subject, points to his geeky high school photo.


                            PETER
                 Oh, not that.  You promised you’d burn it.


                            MAY
                 You were adorable.
                       (to Ben)
                 The least you could do is use a glass.


Ben sighs and reaches for a piece of pizza.


                            MAY
                 Absolutely no class.


                            PETER
                 Funny thing happened after my physics class today. Harry
                 Osborn--


                            MAY
                       (to Ben)
                 Use a fork.


Ben puts down the pizza, looks at May.


                            BEN
                 Okay, I’m a slob. Ya sorry you married so far beneath you?


                            MAY
                 What do you think?


Silence.  May looks at Peter.


                            PETER
                 A match made in heaven.


                            MAY
                       (softening)
                 See?  You big dullard.


Ben smiles; May smiles back.  Peter isn’t smiling.  He’s refereed too
often.


EXT.  FDR DRIVE - NIGHT


OCK’S AGED DODGE DART SPEEDS TOWARD DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN.


INT.  OCK’S CAR - NIGHT


IN AN ALLEY NEAR E.S.U. A PARKED CAR, LITTERED WITH GARBAGE, SCHOOL PAPERS,
CRUSHED CIGARETTE PACKS. ON THE CRACKED VINYL SEAT LIE THE REMAINS OF
SEVERAL CHOPPED-UP CREDIT CARDS, ALL READING “OTTO OCTAVIUS.”  OCK’S HANDS
RUN A MAGNET OVER THE SCOTCH-TAPED COMPOSITE STRIPE ON A ESU CARD-KEY.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - NIGHT


TWO PHYSICS GRAD STUDENTS-- GAWKY STEVE AND ASIAN LUCY-- LEAVE THE
BUILDING, LAUGHING. ROZ, SMILING, LOCKS THE DOOR ON THE WAY OUT.


                            STEVE
                 -- from that paper you’d think he had an IQ well below
                 plant life--


                            LUCY
                 The theory isn’t all that stupid.  Just sort of inelegant,
                 and ugly, and--


Ock climbs up the steps-- the laughter stops immediately.


                            STEVE
                 Hey, Doc Ock! Speak of the devil!


                            ROZ
                       (over him)
                 Otto, Otto!  Do join us.  Chianti and pasta at Anna’s.
                 Remember that night after your orals when I--


                            OCK
                 No.  No thank you.  I have work.


                            ROZ
                 I heard about Thorkel’s order--


                            OCK
                 I left a paper in my desk.


                            STEVE
                 You’re not planning to publish it, I hope?


With a look, Roz silences the grads’ laughter.  Ock pays them no mind
anyway, goes up the steps and enters the building. Roz leads the students
away, glancing back at Ock with concern.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT


OCK CROSSES TO THE CYCLOTRON DOOR, INSERTS THE JERRY-RIGGED CARD-KEY.  THE
LOCK REJECTS IT.  HE SCRATCHES AT THE STRIPE WITH A HOUSE KEY, REINSERTS IT-
- REJECTED.  OCK LOOKS AROUND FURTIVELY, PUSHES AND HOLDS IT IN.  THIS
TIME, A GREEN LIGHT GOES ON AND THE DOOR UNLATCHES.


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER-NIGHT


THE CYCLOTRON WHINES, THE BEAM ERUPTS FROM THE FOCUSER ONTO THE WEIGHT.


Crawling on the crystal cone we see the spider from our opening image.


INT.   CONTROL ROOM


RED PATTERNS ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN, WITH ACCOMPANYING TONES.  THE DIGITAL
READOUT DIPS BELOW 1.0, FLASHING SLOWLY-DESCENDING NUMBERS.  A STRANGE,
DISTINCTIVE THROB GROWS LOUDER.  READOUT:  ‘APPROACHING NEGATIVE MASS.”
OCK WATCHES THE CHAMBER INTENTLY, THRILLED. “OVERLOAD-- SHUT DOWN NOW,
PLEASE.”  INSTEAD, OCK INCREASES POWER.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER


THE SPIDER DROPS ON A WEB STRAND TOWARD THE WEIGHT, WHICH PULSATES WEIRDLY.


INT. CONTROL ROOM


THE MASS INDICATOR NEARS ZERO. A VOLTMETER SWINGS INTO OVERLOAD, A WARNING
ALARM SOUNDS, READOUT:  ‘OVERLOAD-- DAMAGE MAY RESULT,” THEN:  ‘SYSTEM
ERROR -- SYSTEM ERROR-- SYSTEM ERROR.”  THE WARNINGS FILL THE SCREEN.


On the monitor, the gram weight PULSES, the THROB gets louder.  The spider
drops inches from it.  Ock, annoyed, seizes the waldo controls to swipe at
the descending spider.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER


A WALDO SWIPES AT THE SPIDER.  SENSING THIS, THE SPIDER DROPS, ALIGHTING ON
THE GLOWING GRAM WEIGHT.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM


THE MASS READOUT JUMPS FROM 0.00000133 UP TO 1.77349012.  ON THE MONITOR,
THE WEIGHT SPINS OFF THE SCALE.  IN RAPID SUCCESSION:


All the dials and readouts go mad, the computer screen IMPLODES.


Ock’s eyes open wide, his face registers ecstasy.


The control room glass turns to fluid, sucked into the chamber.


A yard-wide hole rips open in the cyclotron tube.


Ock is thrust against the controls, his shirt rips away.


The waldos flail madly, steel walls buckle like rubber.


Wires snap, shooting sparks, cyclotron pipes squirm and bend like snakes.


The PULSING light slashes through everything


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY


THE LIGHT PENETRATES THE WALLS FROM THE CYCLOTRON ROOM


Doors bang open and closed, carts of chemicals spin.  Lab animals SCREAM.


Walls and objects warp together, surrealistic.


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER


AS SUDDENLY AS THE EFFECTS BEGAN, THEY CEASE.  DEAD SILENCE.


The spider, glowing slightly, scuttles across the floor.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM


TIGHT ON OCK, LYING ON THE FLOOR IN THE EERIE, DIM LIGHT.  HE OPENS HIS
EYES.


The room around him looks melted:  dials, monitors and switches distorted
as in a fun-house mirror; a chair fused into a wall, the door twisted,
rippled.


Ock looks down, fascinated.


The extended metallic waldo tentacles curl on the floor.  We follow the
length of one of them to its new source.  It joins with Ock’s torso.


All four waldos penetrate the flesh of Ock’s bare chest and belly.
Octavius SHRIEKS.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY


WARPED AND WEIRD.  OCK’S SCREAM ECHOES AND DIES.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


UNDAMAGED ON THE OUTSIDE, SURROUNDED BY NYPD PATROL CARS, FIRE TRUCKS,
SEDANS MARKED “NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION,” EPA VANS AND A SINGLE
AMBULANCE. POLICE SEARCH OCK’S DART AS A TOW TRUCK PREPARES TO TAKE IT.
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS ERECT PLYWOOD BARRIERS AROUND THE BUILDING, OVER
WINDOWS.


Police lines holdback a crowd of reporters, students and gawkers. J. Jonah
James himself pushes to the front of the throng.  Two guards hustle out to
a NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER. Jameson collars the man.


                            JAMESON
                 Get anything good?


The photographer shakes his head.  Jameson flings his cigar to the
sidewalk. Ashen, Thorkel exits the Science Center, addresses the crowd.


                            THORKEL
                 Please, all of you go home!  There’s nothing to report
                 here!


                            JAMESON
                 That’s a load a’ crap!


A barrage of AD LIB questions:  “We heard there was an explosion!”  “Was it
terrorism?” “A nuclear accident?”  “A meltdown, was it a meltdown?”


                            THORKEL
                 No, no, no, please--


                            JAMESON
                 I bet it was genetic engineering!  You guys makin’ mutants
                 in there?


Peter, curious, makes his way toward Jameson.


                            THORKEL
                 There was a boiler explosion. Only minor damage--


                            REPORTER
                 Why the ambulance?  Who was hurt?


                            THORKEL
                 Just-- just a custodian-- we haven’t as yet reached the
                 family--


                            JAMESON
                 Was he killed?


                            THORKEL
                 No. No, please.  Nothing more I can say at this time.


Thorkel re-enters the building.  Police hold reporters back, AD LIB
QUESTIONS.


                            PETER
                 You taking extension classes, Mr. Jameson?


                            JAMESON
                 Parker-- you go here, right?  Got your camera?


                            PETER
                 Yeah--


                            JAMESON
                 Get inside and get pictures.  Fifty bucks.


                            PETER
                 Can we make it a hundred?


                            JAMESON
                 Seventy.  But I want blood and gore.  You know, sexy stuff.


Peter nods, pulls his Nikon from his pack and hands the pack to Jameson.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER ALLEY - DAY


PETER TEARS HIS PANTS ON THE TOP OF A CYCLONE FENCE, FALLS IN A GRACELESS
HEAP.  CURSING, HE CHECKS THE CAMERA FOR DAMAGE, GETS TO HIS FEET WITH
PAIN.  AN UNMARKED WHITE VAN BLOCKS THE FAR END OF THE ALLEY.


Afire door opens to the science center.  Peter ducks behind a dumpster.
Two men in radiation suits carry out a small stretcher, atop it a vision
from a nightmare:  a whimpering dog fused with a wire cage. While the men
load it into the van, Peter limps through the fire door and inside.


INT.  BASEMENT HALLWAY - DAY


ARCHITECTURAL ANGLES SKEWED, WALLS AND DOORS “MELTED” AND RE-SOLIDIFIED AS
A RESULT OF THE EXPERIMENT. VOICES OF VARIOUS OFFICIALS FILTER DOWN THE
HALL.  PETER STAYS OUT OF SIGHT, SNAPPING PICTURES.


                            NYPD CAPTAIN
                 -- could be called burglary, but the Department
                 relinquishes jurisdiction--


                            NRC MAN
                 -- practical applications for defense--


                            FIRE CHIEF
                 -- Jesus, those animals--


Roz accompanies two paramedics wheeling a sheet-covered body on a gurney up
the hall. Peter sees that it’s Ock, snaps a  photo, then ducks into the
men’s room.


INT.  MEN’S ROOM - DAY


LIKE A DALI:  URINALS COMPRESSED AND STRETCHED, PORCELAIN SINKS TWISTED,
STALLS FUSED WITH THE SLOPED FLOOR AND GNARLED PLUMBING.  PETER ENTERS,
SWEEPING AWAY THE STRANDS OF A SPIDER’S WEB.  THROUGH THE DOOR, HE HEARS
THE GURNEY ROLL BY.


                            PARAMEDIC #1
                 -- never seen nothin’ so weird.


                            PARAMEDIC #2
                 Oh, I have.  In ’69.  We was up in Boston, trippin’ our
                 brains out--


                            ROZ
                 Please.


Their voices recede.  A SQUEAK at Peter’s feet startles him-- he looks down
to see--


A white lab rat, melded to its exercise wheel, struggling pathetically
across the tile floor.  Peter reacts, focuses his camera on it.


Above Peter’s head, the still-glowing spider drops from its twisted web on
a strand.  It lands unnoticed on his hand-- and bites.


Peter slaps his hand, but the spider drops onto the floor, ceases to glow.
Its limbs contract in death.


Peter drops his camera as a wave of nausea hits him.  He braces against a
sink, sees his image in a twisted mirror-- drenched in sweat, his face
flushed red.  A GUARD pushes the door open behind him.


                            GUARD
                 Hey!  What the hell you doin’ in here?


                            PETER
                 I was thinking about throwing up--


The guard grabs the dazed Peter and hustles him out.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


THE GUARD PUSHES PETER OUT THE DOOR.  SOUNDS OF THE CROWD AND CITY ARE A
MUDDLED ROAR TO PETER. AND HE’S NOT LIMPING ANYMORE.


                            PETER
                 My ankle doesn’t hurt--


                            GUARD
                 Good for you.  Stay outta here.


The guard shoves him past the police line, where Jameson approaches him.


                            JAMESON
                 Okay, kid, what you got?


Peter, dizzy, tries to rewind his film. In BG, medics load Ock into the
ambulance.


                            PETER
                 Can’t focus…


                            JAMESON
                 Gimme that.  Pick it up later.


He snatches the camera, stuffs it in Peter’s backpack, heads off.  Peter
lifts his glasses to rub his eyes.


PETER’S POV:  The world comes into sharp, precise focus.


Peter shakes himself, looks through the glasses again, then puts them in
his pocket.  He heads unsteadily down the street, away from  the dwindling
crowd.


EXT. GREENWICH VILLAGE STREET - DAY


STILL WOOZY, PETER STARTS ACROSS THE STREET.  THE AMBULANCE BARRELS TOWARD
HIM--


The SIREN suddenly WAILS above the urban din--


Peter turns to see the bumper only feet away--


Instinctively he jumps UP, OUT OF FRAME--


The ambulance speeds on its way.


EXT. BRICK BUILDING - DAY


CLOSE, ON PETER’S FACE, PRESSED AGAINST THE BRICKS, EYES CLOSED, BREATHING
HARD.  HE OPENS HIS EYES, REGAINING HIS SENSES.  PUZZLEMENT…  THEN FEAR.
HE LOOKS DOWN.


The sidewalk is fifteen feet below him.


He’s clinging flat against the wall, palms at his sides against the bricks.
 Peter whimpers. A tremor in his hand, he reaches to pull himself upward.


He tries for a toehold.  Brick crumbles beneath his feet, he swings wildly,
but his fingertips hold him against the building’s face.


He looks at his fingers, his hand-- the spider bite glows faintly under his
skin.


Tentatively at first, he inches upward.  With growing confidence, he crawls
up the wall to the roof of the ten-story structure.


EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY


UNLIKE THE CLAUSTROPHOBIC STREETS BELOW, SKY AND SPACE ABOUND.  AT THE
LEDGE, PETER CLUTCHES AN IRON VENT PIPE TO PULL HIMSELF UP.  IT CRUNCHES IN
HIS GRIP.  HE CLAMBERS TO THE FLAT ROOF AND REGARDS THE PIPE, THE DIZZYING
HEIGHT.  HE LOOKS AROUND HIM, WONDERING IF HE’S LOST HIS MIND.  HE SITS
DOWN NEAR THE LEDGE.


                            PETER
                 This is very strange.


He rubs the back of his hand-- the glow of the spider-bite vanishes.


Getting slowly to his feet, he stretches, flexes his muscles.  His body
feels somehow different.  He shrugs, then jumps straight up-- about fifteen
feet, as if from a trampoline.  He lands agilely.


Confusion turns to elation.


He leaps to the roof access door, clings to it and crawls to the top of the
small shack.  New York stretches in every direction.  The sun peeks out
from behind the clouds.


Peter LAUGHS in pure exhilaration.  He leaps from the access door, and runs
at full speed across the roof, enjoying his body. At the ledge, he leaps
into space--


EXT.  NEW YORK ROOFTOPS - DAY


--AND LANDS ATOP THE SLOPED ROOF OF THE NEXT BUILDING.  PETER KEEPS JUMPING
WITH THE SAME HEADY FREEDOM.


Another leap, this time pirouetting in mid-air over a 50-story drop.


The next jump, he lands upside-down on the side of a building, clinging and
kicking his feet in the air.  More LAUGHTER.


A pre-teen PIGEON KEEPER turns from his cooing birds.  Peter dashes by  him
and leaps from the building.  Stunned, the kid walks out of the coop,
leaving the door open.  The birds fly out in a flurry.


Peter slides down a high telephone cable across an alley between buildings.


EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY


ATOP AN UNFINISHED BUILDING SIT STACKS OF IRON GIRDERS AND 2X4S.  PETER
TESTS HIS STRENGTH, IMITATING BRUCE LEE, ATTACKING THE BOARDS AND
SPLINTERING THEM EASILY.


He leaps and grabs the hook of a construction crane, swings on it like
Tarzan.


EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - DAY


A MOTHER WHEELS A TWO-YEAR-OLD GIRL IN AN OPEN PRAM PAST THE CONSTRUCTION
SITE.  THE KID SUCKS A BOTTLE, LOOKS UP.  THE LITTLE GIRL’S EYES FOLLOW--


Peter swinging on the hook.  He drops and scampers down the building’s
skeleton.


The little girl takes out her bottle and giggles.


EXT.  PHONE BOOTH - DAY


PETER DROPS A QUARTER INTO THE SLOT OF THE OUTDOOR PHONE BAY.  HIS FINGER
FINDS “POISON CONTROL” ON A STICK-ON LIST OF EMERGENCY PHONE NUMBERS.


                            NURSE VOICE
                       (filter)
                 Poison emergency.


                            PETER
                 Hi.  I’ve got sort of a hypothetical question.  Do you
                 suppose the bite of a radioactive spider would transmit
                 that spider’s proportional strength and agility?


                            NURSE VOICE
                       (a long beat)
                 Is this some sort of Zen thing?


                            PETER
                 I mean, I suddenly have immense physical power, and the
                 ability to crawl up walls--


                            NURSE VOICE
                 Do ya? Lemme give you the number for Bellevue.  That’s 561-
                 5151--


                            PETER
                 Yeah, a psychiatric hospital. Listen, I’m serious--


                            NURSE
                 I’m sure.  They handle problems like yours all the time.


                            PETER
                 Have a nice day.


He hangs up and crawls up the wall.


INT.  OPERATING ROOM - DAY


DR. CRAWFORD AND ASSISTANTS, GOWNED AND MASKED, LOOK BELOW FRAME AT THE
PATIENT-- OCK.  THEY ATTEMPT TO REMAIN CLINICAL, BUT WE SEE THEIR HORROR.


                            DR. CRAWFORD
                 Again, hydraulics and electronics melded with dorsal
                 tissue, ganglia, organs--
                       (sighs)
                 Jesus God… this is nuts.


                            NURSE
                 Can’t those things be removed somehow?


                            DR. CRAWFORD
                 Not without killing him.


Into a tray, forceps drop a short length of cable intertwined with nerve
ganglia.


                            DR. CRAWFORD
                 Six hours to get that much.


                            DOCTOR #2
                 What was he mucking around with?


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


WORK LIGHTS ILLUMINATE THE WARPED ROOM: CASCADES OF MELTED GLASS, A HOLE IN
THE CYCLOTRON TUBE, A TANGLE OF WIRES AND METAL AT THE TRANSFORMER.  AN NRC
MAN WITH LEAD GLOVES AND BOOTS EXPLORES THE ROOM.  ROZ WATCHES FROM THE
CONTROL ROOM, GOING OVER OCK’S NOTES.


                            ROZ
                 Octavius’ notes are pretty impenetrable.


                            NRC MAN
                 Whatever he was up to,  it was new.  Look.


He pushes a gloved finger into the metallic wall-- it’s soft and rubbery.
Thorkel enters the control room, paces and fiddles around.  They ignore
him.


                            NRC MAN
                 This was steel…


                            THORKEL
                 Unbelievable.  How do I explain this to the trustees?


                            ROZ
                 Temperature?


                            NRC MAN
                 Cool.


                            THORKEL
                 Damn him.  Look at this, expensive property, ruined--


He throws a switch-- nothing happens.


                            ROZ
                 Thorkel, stop that.  Radiation levels?


                            NRC MAN
                 Normal.


                            THORKEL
                 Do you know how much this will cost to repair?!


He angrily throws another switch-- the damaged cyclotron SQUEALS and THROBS
once, Roz pushes the stunned Thorkel away and shuts the cyclotron off.


The NRC Man ducks as a PULSE of energy shoots from the focusing cone to the
transformer and rushes visibly along the cables.


EXT.  RAILROAD TRACKS - DAY


EL BETWEEN STATIONS, ELECTRICAL HUM OF OVERHEAD WIRES.  THE RUMBLE OF AN
APPROACHING LONG ISLAND TRAIN.  THE PULSE RIPPLES THROUGH THE POWERLINES.


INT.  COMMUTER TRAIN -DAY


A LIGHT SATURDAY CROWD, INCLUDING THE GRAD STUDENT STEVE, ABSORBED IN AN
EPIC MAGAZINE.  AS USUAL, THE STIFF SUBURBANITES IGNORE ONE ANOTHER.


EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - DAY


OVERHEAD LINES PULSE AND THROB AS IN THE EXPERIMENT.  A MIRAGE-LIKE SHIMMER
HANGS IN THE AIR.


The commuter car whizzes forward into the shimmer and DISAPPEARS.


INT. COMMUTER TRAIN


THROUGH THE DIRTY WINDOWS, THE WEIRD PULSE AND THROB. THE PASSENGERS IGNORE
IT.  A FEW WORK THEIR WAY TO THE DOORS FOR THE NEXT STOP.


A WHOOSH and a THUD as the train stops abruptly, the PULSE dissolving into
DAYLIGHT.  The doors HISS open: the passengers look out timidly.


They see a snowy plain.  A fur-clad Mongolian peasant with a yak stares
back at them.


EXT.  MONGOLIAN WASTELAND - DAY


REVEAL THE EL TRAIN LAYING INCONGRUOUSLY AMIDST THE DESOLATE LANDSCAPE.


EXT.  TIMES SQUARE - DAY


THE MARQUEES, TRAFFIC AND LIGHTS.  THE ROLLING NEWS SIGN READS:  “LONG
ISLAND TRAIN DISAPPEARS.”  PERCHED ATOP THE SIGN HIGH ABOVE IT ALL, PETER
SCANS THE SCENE, ARMS FOLDED.  LOOKING DOWN, HE SEES A CHEESY THEATER SIGN:
 ‘BATTLE A MONSTER!  $1000 FOR 1 MINUTE WITH HULK HOGAN.”  CONTESTANTS LINE
UP OUTSIDE.


EXT.  THEATER ENTRANCE - DAY


BENEATH THE MARQUEE, A DOZEN LARGE MEN STAND IN LINE.  CROWD NOISE FROM
WITHIN. PETER TAKES A PLACE BEHIND A RAMBO TYPE IN BANDANNA AND FATIGUES
AND A GOON WEARING A NARROW BURGLAR MASK, STRIPED SHIRT AND CAP.


                            RAMBO
                 What for da mask?


                            GOON
                 Don’t wanna look stupid.


                            PETER
                 Yeah.  You might lose your scholarship.


                            GOON
                 Zat a joke?


Peter slowly shakes his head.  He glances across the street and spies
“LIEBER’S NOVELTIES:  Toys, Jokes, Costumes.”


INT. WRESTLING ARENA - DAY


THUMP.  RAMBO FLIES DOWN ON THE MAT, HOGAN PINS HIM.  THE CROWD CHEERS.


Near the ring, a new-wave AMAZON official cocks her head at Peter, who
wears a rubber fly mask with huge compound eyes and antennae.


                            AMAZON
                 Ya look kinda scrawny for this.


Peter flexes his muscles, none too impressively.  She hands him a release
form.


                            AMAZON
                 Says you won’t sue us if ya get killed.


Peter signs the release.  She reads it and shrugs.


                            AMAZON
                 Okay, Mr. Thorkel.  I trust ya.  Ya got an honest face.


Peter bows. Rambo crawls out of the ring.  Peter bounds over the ropes onto
the mat.  Hogan looks at the fly-masked contestant, then leads the crowd in
derision.


The large, digital one-minute clock BUZZES.


Peter gestures “come hither” with both hands.  Hogan grins evilly and
ROARS, lunging across the mat, dwarfing the skinny kid.  Peter dodges the
blond giant, leaping and spinning aside acrobatically.  The CROWD BOOS,
demanding action.


At ringside near the Amazon, MAX REISS watches with interest.  Reiss is a
world-weary, balding agent, none too successful, judging from his unpressed
suit.


Hogan laughs and goes for Peter again. This time, he tosses the wrestler--
hard. He lifts Hogan up over his head and slams him to the mat.  Carrying
the flailing giant under his arm, Peter scales a ring post.  The clock
ticks off the last few seconds. He dangles Hogan by his boot toe, like a
prize trout.


                            PETER
                 Now tell me you love me.


                            HOGAN
                 Lemme down, bugface!


                            PETER
                 That’s not even close.


Peter drops Hogan face-first on the mat as the BUZZER SOUNDS.  The unruly
crowd BOOS and HISSES.  AD LIB SCREAMS:  “Rip-off!”  “Bullshit!”  “It was
fixed”


Hogan rolls over on the mat in pain, his nose bleeding.  Peter leaps down,
genuinely concerned.  He puts his hand on Hogan’s shoulder.


                            PETER
                 Are you okay?


                            HOGAN
                       (cowering)
                 Get away from me, freak!


EXT.  alley - DAY


STILL MASKED, PETER EXITS THE BACK DOOR, COUNTING TEN HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS.
 THE DOOR OPENS AGAIN AND REISS RUSHES OUT, FUMBLING FOR A BUSINESS CARD.


                            REISS
                 Kid, you were terrific.  Max Reiss, novelty acts.  Was that
                 judo or something?  Ah, skip it.  Question is, can you do
                 it again?


                            PETER
                 Oh-- I don’t know-- thanks, Mr. Reiss, but--


Peter reads the business card while Reiss sizes him up.


                            REISS
                 I dunno about the mask.  Might want to get something
                 sexier.  People don’t like bugs.


The door SLAMS open, Hogan strides out, bruised and furious.  He walks over
to Peter. Reiss backs off.  Hogan lumbers over to Peter.  Two ominous
beats.


                            HOGAN
                 How are you doing, kid?


                            PETER
                 Oh, look, Mr. Hogan, I’m really sorry about what happened
                 in there.  Really--


                            HOGAN
                 You can be great, kid, just stick with it. But let me give
                 you one little piece of advice… be a good guy.


                            PETER
                 Right.


Hogan gives Peter a big smile and heads back into the building.  Peter
heads off, and Reiss calls after him:


                            REISS
                 My number’s on the card!  Call me!


INT.  LEIBER’S NOVELTY SHOP - DAY


TOYS, GAMES, COSTUMES EVERYWHERE.  LEIBER, A SHARP-EYED MAN WITH A
SUSPICIOUS TWINKLE, WATCHES PETER-- STILL IN THE BUG MASK -- FINISH A
SKETCH:  A BODY SUIT WITH A WEB DESIGN AND A SPIDER ON THE CHEST.


                            LEIBER
                 No refund on the mask, y’know.  Health laws.


                            PETER
                 Uh-huh. Look, this should be skintight.  Bright colors.
                 Red, maybe a deep midnight blue.


                            LEIBER
                 What’s this? A cockaroach?


                            PETER
                 A spider.  Eight legs.


Leiber looks at the fly-headed Peter, who has spotted a loud, trendy jacket-
- like a red leopard skin-- on a nearby sale rack.  He holds it up to
himself.


                            LEIBER
                 Eh.  Week from tomorrow.


                            PETER
                 How about tomorrow?


                            LEIBER
                 You’re making my life difficult.


                            PETER
                 Two suits by tomorrow for $400?


                            LEIBER
                 An even five I throw in the jacket.


                            PETER
                 Deal.  But don’t tell anyone.  I want to keep a low
                 profile.


Leiber nods seriously.  The bug-headed Peter exits, jacket in a bag under
his arm.


                            LEIBER
                 Meshuggena.


INT. OCK’S HOSPITAL ROOM- DUSK


DR. CRAWFORD AND A BRAIN MAN STAND AT OCK’S BEDSIDE. A SNIDE ORDERLY LETS
THE SHEET DOWN ON OCK’S BODY. A SPONGE AND PAN ON A TRAY; WIRES, IVS, EEG
MONITORS.


                            BRAIN MAN
                 Still comatose.  Alpha, beta, gamma brain waves low, but
                 look--


He points to an oscilloscope, tracing a lively wave.


                            BRAIN MAN (cont.)
                 Normally there’s no activity at this wavelength.  It’s like
                 there’s a party going on in there.


                            DR. CRAWFORD
                 A malfunction?


                            BRAIN MAN
                 Well… not in the equipment.


                            ORDERLY
                 He’s all washed, Doc.  Want me to polish his chrome, too?


The doctors’ icy stares cut the orderly’s guffaw. They all leave, Crawford
flips off the light.  Ock remains immobile.


In the dim evening light, a metal arm rustles beneath the sheet.


EXT. E.S.U. DORM - NIGHT


PETER, WHISTLING, TAKES STEPS TWO AT A TIME INTO THE GEORGIAN BUILDING,
WHICH FACES WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK (HE WON’T WEAR GLASSES FROM NOW ON.).


INT.  E.S.U. DORM - NIGHT


PETER, LOOKING CRUSHED, TALKS WITH LIZ’S ROOMMATE ADELE, AN OVERWEIGHT
BLACK GIRL. SHE LEANS AGAINST THE OPEN DOOR, A CAT UNDER HER ARM.  THE ROOM
BEYOND FEATURES TWO BEDS, TWO DESKS, MANY PLANTS. A BIG POSTER OF CHE
GUEVARA ON ONE SIDE; A BOTTICELLI AND A SHELF OF WELL-LOVED DOLLS ON THE
OTHER.


                            ADELE
                 I’m reading Marx to her dolls while she’s away.


                            PETER
                 New Hampshire.


                            ADELE
                 Yeah. Flash’s family has a ski cabin.  Come the revolution,
                 there’ll be no more ski cabins.


Peter’s disappointment is gut-wrenching.  He turns, and Adele scolds
herself for telling the truth.


EXT.  E.S.U. DORM - NIGHT


PETER SLOUCHES DOWN THE STEPS.  HE KICKS A GARBAGE CAN. IT FLIES AND
CRASHES IN THE STREET.


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT - NIGHT


A SOPPY TONY BENNETT SONG PLAYS AS PETER FIDGETS ON THE BED, STARING AT AN
OPEN ASTRONOMY TEXT.  HE GETS UP, GRABS AN APPLE, THEN DIALS A MEMORIZED
NUMBER.


                            PETER
                 Hi, Ben, is-- thanks… Hi, Aunt May… Wait, you’ll appreciate
                 this-- the most bizarre thing-- Just an apple… I know, but
                 let me--Yeah, fascinating… No, let me talk… I can make the
                 rent now…
                       (firmly)
                 Damn it, Aunt May!  Listen for once!
                       (apologetic)
                 You know that’s not what I mean… No, you’re not a cow…
                 Right, I’m sorry… I’m sorry!  Fine… I’ll speak to you
                 tomorrow.


He hangs up in frustration, looks at the phone.


                            PETER
                 By the way, I got super-powers today.


He throws the half-eaten apple toward the garbage can.  It misses.


INT.  OCK’S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY


MORNING LIGHT SPILLS THROUGH THE WINDOW.  ROSOMOFF SITS AT OCK’S BESIDE;
OCK NOW SITS UP, WIDE-EYES, ABNORMALLY ALERT, AN UNLIT CIGARETTE IN HIS
MOUTH.  THE WALDOS ARE IMMOBILE BENEATH THE SHEETS.


                            OCK
                 Truth.  I lifted the veil. Total inter-penetration of
                 physical forces-- dimensions unknown since the birth of the
                 cosmos!


Roz lights Ock’s cigarette, eyes him dubiously.  Ock doesn’t bother to
smoke it.


                            ROZ
                 A bit melodramatic… but if you could prove it… that would
                 tie in your unified field theory, the Big Bang, Kaluza-
                 Klein--


                            OCK
                 Ach, theories!  This was first-hand, experiential
                 knowledge, the essence of the universe.


Roz begins to sense the man’s madness.


                            ROZ
                 Mm.  But at what cost, Otto. You barely survived a coma.
                 And look at yourself--


Roz glances at Ock’s sheeted torso.


                            OCK
                 My… self.  I don’t matter.  This human life, all life--
                 insignificant.  Bodies-- bags of sleepy, sluggish flesh.


                            ROZ
                       (carefully)
                 All right, we may be insignificant, imperfect creatures--
                 but we’re all we’ve got.


                            OCK
                 You’re wrong.  Just for a moment, I heard, saw, felt-- I
                 became Creation.


Ock takes the cig from his mouth, stares at the smoldering end.


                            ROZ
                 Creation? Or its opposite?


                            OCK
                 Truth. Pure, eternal.  Beyond the boundaries of mere
                 mortality.


Roz regards Ock sadly, takes the cigarette and extinguishes it.


                            ROZ
                 Otto, we are mere mortals. You must never forget your own
                 limits--


                            OCK
                 I’ll repeat the experiment.  I will hold the truth. That’s
                 the only thing that matters.


                            ROZ
                 No. It isn’t.


He moves in closer, trying to see past Ock’s madness.  He speaks quietly
but firmly.


                            ROZ
                 Life and death matter. Yours-- everyone’s.  By comparison,
                 our search for truth is only a product of curiosity, a game-
                 -


                            OCK
                 Oh, Roz.  My mind is so far beyond yours now.
                       (pleased)
                 I could beat you at chess now.


Roz realizes Ock is beyond communication, off the deep end. A KNOCK and
Thorkel enters, smiling.


                            THORKEL
                 Gentlemen.  Professor, if you could…


Rosomoff sighs and rises.


                            ROZ
                 I was just leaving. Please, Otto.  Be careful.


Roz exits.  Thorkel stands at the foot of the bed, leans on the bedpost.


                            THORKEL
                 It’s good to see you awake. Feeling all right?


Ock ignores him.  Thorkel gives him a lemony smile.


                            THORKEL
                 Then you’ll be glad to know the University has decided not
                 to press criminal charges against you. Breaking and
                 entering… the minor matter of the total destruction of a 23
                 million dollar cyclotron…


                            OCK
                 I will finish what I’ve begun…


                            THORKEL
                 Doubtless.  And you’ll have all the time in the world to
                 pursue your work.   Somewhere else.


Ock’s eyes narrow.  Thorkel smiles.


                            THORKEL
                 To put it bluntly, Octavius, you’re history.  Fired,
                 canned, out on your ass.  The University will take care of
                 your medical bills, but I consider that a small price to
                 pay for the pleasure of getting rid--


Without warning, a steel waldo shoots out from beneath the sheet and
clutches Thorkel by the throat.  His smirk turns into a grimace as the arm
lifts him off the floor, pushing the man up near the ceiling.


Amazed, Ock looks along  the waldo from his chest to the choking Thorkel.
Ock  touches the metal arm curiously as the man gasps for breath.
Thorkel’s feet kick wildly, then go limp.  Ock drops the body.


Ock gets out of bed, stands over Thorkel’s body.  An arm telescopes
outward, the claw opens and shuts experimentally.  Ock nods in growing
pleasure.  Another arm draws the curtains.  A third arm shoots out and
clicks the door locked.  The fourth arm delicately clicks off the
electronic monitors.  Ock clenches and relaxes his human hands, the
mechanical arms writhe like cobras.  He smiles.


INT.  SURGEON’S DRESSING ROOM - DAY


A LOCKER ROOM.  A FAT DOCTOR HANGS UP HIS OVERCOAT, TAKES A LAB SMOCK.
HANGING IN THE LOCKER IS A GREEN AND YELLOW JOGGING SUIT.  AS HE PUTS THE
SMOCK ON, A WALDO SNAKES AROUND A CORNER, INTO THE LOCKER.  IT TAKES THE
OVERCOAT AND JOGGING SUIT.


INT. MEDICAL INCINERATOR -DAY


FLAMES THROUGH THE OPEN GRATE CAST WEIRD SHADOWS ON OCK (DRESSED IN THE
OVERCOAT AND JOGGING SUIT WITH HOLES TORN FOR THE WALDOS).  HE GRABS THE
GRATE HANDLE, BURNS HIMSELF, BACKS OVER THORKEL’S GLASSES WITH A CRUNCH.
HE TOSSES THEM INTO THE FIRE.  A WALDO CLOSES THE GRATE.


INT.  PETER’S APARTMENT - DAY


IN HIS BATHROBE AT THE KITCHEN TABLE, PETER SQUEEZES THE CONTENTS OF A TUBE
OF SUPER-GLUE INTO A BEAKER, THEN HEATS THE VISCOUS GOOP OVER A BUNSEN
BURNER, STIRRING IT. A MICROSCOPE, SEVERAL EMPTY GLUE TUBES, JARS OF
THINNER, AND VIALS OF POWDER LIE ABOUT.


Mid-day.  Peter tears open a bag from a sporting goods store, dumps out
several reels of high-strength fishing line and boxes of miniature gas
cartridges.


Afternoon. Fast-food wrappers, chemical supplies and lengths of thin rubber
tubing.  Peter uses adhesive tape to secure his “web-shooter”:  a pouch of
glue under his arm; a tube down his forearm ending with a short metal
nozzle at the heel of his hand; a watchband-thin reel of line around his
wrist with a tiny gas cartridge; a pressure-sensitive button in his palm.


Peter extends his arm toward the far wall, bends his wrist, presses the
trigger with his middle finger. A hideous wad of goo oozes all over his
hand and explodes through the tubing. He’s grossed out.


Over the Bunsen burner again, Peter mixes more glue, thinner this time.


Wads of failed line and glue stick to the walls like linguini. Peter tries
again.  He aims at the ceiling.  A long stream of glue-impregnated line
spits out and attaches to the ceiling with a SPLAT.  Peter tugs at it-- it
holds.  He climbs up it, hand overhand, and hangs from the ceiling.  He
beams with success.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER -DAY


THE FRONT DOOR.  A WALDO REACHES INTO FRAME, SNAPS THE LOCK AND CHAIN WITH
A METAL CLAW.


INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY


OCK[IN THE JOGGING SUIT FROM NOW ON] SURVEYS THE DAMAGE, FLIPS ON THE
CYCLOTRON. A SINGLE BLUE PULSE AND THROB.  THE WALDOS BLOCK A SHOWER OF
SPARKS.


INT. ESU DORM -DAY


READING COSMO BENEATH A CHE POSTER, ADELE LOOKS UP.  THE TV HAS TURNED
ITSELF ON, WILDLY FLIPPING FROM CHANNEL TO CHANNEL.  FROM OS COMES THE BUZZ
OF LIZ’S BLOW-DRYER, AND A BLAST OF AIR.


The dryer levitates, whirling around, then pulls its cord from the socket
and plummets to the bed.  Freaked out, Adele hurried to the door.


SCREAMS from the dorm rooms, students hurry into the hall and down the
steps. Light bulbs shatter, vacuum cleaners race around, the hands of a
wall clock spin crazily.


EXT. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - DAY


PLAYING CHESS WITH AN AGED PARTNER, ROZ SEES STUDENTS RUSH OUT OF THEIR
DORM, SOME PANICKED, OTHERS AMUSED. AD LIB EXCLAMATIONS:  “MY TOASTER-OVER
ATTACKED ME!”  “WHAT IS GOING ON?”  “GODDAMNED CON-ED!”


A kid’s ghetto blaster rises from his shoulder and spins in mid-air, then
EXPLODES.


Manhole covers shiver, then spin out of the pavement like flying saucers
and hover in mid-air, then drop to  the earth with a CLANG in unison.


Roz watches it all with scientific interest.


                            PARTNER
                 Your move.


INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAY


AN ELECTRICAL MESS: SPARKS, OZONE.  OCK BACKS AWAY FROM THE SIZZLING
CONTROL PANEL, A WALDO THROWS A SWITCH TO SHUT THE CYCLOTRON DOWN.
DISGUSTED, HE STORMS OUT.


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT -DAY


ATOP PETER’S MATTRESS SITS AN OPEN BOX MARKED “LIEBER’S NOVELTIES” WITH ONE
SPIDER-MAN COSTUME INSIDE.  WEARING  THE OTHER COSTUME BUT NO MASK, PETER
STANDS BEFORE A FULL-LENGTH MIRROR.  HE TUGS AT THE TIGHT SUIT, FEELING
PRETTY SILLY.  PETER PULLS THE MASK OVER HIS FACE.  HE PUFFS OUT HIS CHEST.


                            PETER/SPIDER-MAN
                 In this corner-- The Human Spider!
                       (shakes his head)
                 Unh-uh.  Arachnid-- Arachnia-- no.
                       (unsurely)
                 Spider-Man?


IN THE MIRROR-- the reflected image of SPIDER-MAN nods.


Ext.  peter’s roof - dusk


CITY LIGHTS IN THE DISTANCE.  PETER’S RANGE-FINDER CAMERA SITS ON A TRIPOD
BY THE OPEN SKYLIGHT.  THE SELF-TIMER HUMS, THE CAMERA CLICKS AND FLASHES,
CATCHING SPIDER-MAN IN ACTION: SWINGING ON WEB STRANDS, CLINGING TO WALLS,
LEAPING THROUGH THE AIR.


Spider-Man jumps back and fiddles with the camera, then a KNOCK from below.


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT -NIGHT


LOUD THUMPS AT THE DOOR.  SPIDER-MAN DROPS THROUGH THE SKYLIGHT, MOVES TO
ANSWER, THEN HESITATES, HE PULLS OFF HIS GLOVES AND MASK.  MORE THUMPS,
RHYTHMIC.


                            PETER
                 Cool your jets!


EXT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT


HARRY SITS IN PETER’S DOORWAY, THUMPING HIS HEAD BACKWARD AGAINST THE DOOR.
 AS PETER, IN SWEATER AND JEANS, OPENS THE DOOR, THE DRUNK KID SPRAWLS ON
HIS BACK.  HARRY STARES FOGGILY AT THE RED-WEBBED BOOTS BESIDE HIS FACE.


                            HARRY
                 Ooooh.  Your feet are on fire.


                            PETER
                 Harry…


                            HARRY
                 “Harry Osborne diminishes the stature of the University.”


                            PETER
                 Let me guess.  The hunting dogs.  You lost your
                 scholarship.


Peter lifts Harry upright, sits cross-legged beside him.


                            HARRY
                 “Scholarship students must maintain dignity at all times.”


                            PETER
                 I know.  I’ve got one too.


                            HARRY
                 Screw scholarships!   Universities are death!  They make
                 slaves of us all with their fetid ideas!  Burn ‘em down, I
                 say!


Peter lifts Harry up, leaning him against the doorjamb.


                            PETER
                 Great idea.  Let me get some shoes. I’ll take you home.


                            HARRY
                 Why home? The real world beckons, man!  The possibilities
                 are endless.
                       (beat)
                 Want to go up to the World Trade Center and laugh at New
                 Jersey?


Peter, wearing shoes and a jacket, locks his door.  He leads Harry to the
stairwell.


                            HARRY
                 You’re so responsible it’s disgusting. But you’re my only
                 friend… do you hate me?


                            PETER
                 Don’t be pitiful.


                            HARRY
                 I am not pitiful!  I am the bridge to the Übermensch!


Harry goes pale, grabs his stomach.  Peter holds him by the staircase.


                            PETER
                 Don’t vomit on my shoes, Zarathustra.


EXT. ELECTRODYNE FACTORY - DAY


A SALESMAN WITH A CLIPBOARD LEADS THE OVERCOATED OCK THROUGH A CAVERNOUS
STORAGE HANGER-- SECTIONS OF ALUMINUM PIPE, SPOOLS OF WIRE, ETC.  WORKERS
AND FORKLIFTS UNLOAD AND STACK CRATES.


                            SALESMAN
                       (mumbling)
                 Let’s see,that’s3,000 feet of 50-gaugecopepr armature wire…
                 a transformer… accelerator rails… a few odds and ends…


Ock points to a pipe section.


                            OCK
                 And that.


                            SALESMAN
                 What’s the idea? A do-it-yourself atom smasher?
                       (smiles)
                 Couple a high school whiz kids came in here once, plannin’
                 to build their own neutron bomb. Blueprints, the whole nine
                 yards. Wanted to be the first ones on their block to be the
                 last ones on their block--


He laughs.  Ock stares at him.  He goes back to his clipboard, clears his
throat.


                            SALESMAN
                 Okey-dokey.  Then that’s… uh… oh, figure about 170,000
                 dollars, plus tax.


Ock frowns at the man.


                            SALESMAN
                 Well, you do have to pay for it.


The bulge under Ock’s coat moves ominously.  His face darkens. He’s about
to kill the salesman-- then notices there are too many witnesses about.


                            SALESMAN
                 Are you okay?


                            OCK
                 Money.


He turns on his heel and strides away.


INT. BUGLE NEWS ROOM - DAY


A SLUGGISH MONDAY MORNING.  PETER ENTERS BRISKLY WITH HIS NEW JACKET SLUNG
OVER HIS SHOULDER, AN 8X10 ENVELOPE IN HIS HAND.  HE PAUSES OUTSIDE
JAMESON’S DOOR, NEAR BETTY’S DESK.  THERE’S AN AIR OF COCKINESS TO PETER--
AND BETTY SENSES IT.


                            PETER
                 Is His Eminence receiving?


                            BETTY
                 Uh-huh.  And may God go with you, my son.


INT. JAMESON’S OFFICE - DAY


JAMESON, CIGAR IN HIS TEETH, SMILES AT THE BIZARRE PHOTOS:  THE RAT MELDED
WITH ITS CAGE, THE DISTORTED HALLWAY. PETER EXAMINES HIS NIKON.


                            JAMESON
                 I bet you don’t think I appreciate you, Parker.  I do.


                            PETER
                 Well, thanks.  You wouldn’t believe what I went through to
                 get those.  Right after you took my camera, this ambulan--


                            JAMESON
                 I like enthusiasm.  That’s why I use a lot of smart-ass
                 kids.  Not just ‘cause they work cheap.


                            PETER
                 Mr. Jameson--


                            JAMESON
                 I got a question, college boy.
                       (suddenly livid)
                 What the hell am I supposed to do with these!?  I ask for
                 disaster, pathos, what do I get?  Salvador Dali!  When I
                 want artsy-fartsy double-exposures, I’ll ask for--


                            PETER
                 Double-exposures? But they’re not-- I was in--


                            JAMESON
                 I don’t give a gerbil’s ass how you got ‘em!  I can’t print
                 this surreal garbage!


                            PETER
                 You print pictures of Bigfoot!


                            JAMESON
                 Bunch of kids at your goddamned college say their
                 appliances attacked them.  Did you get pictures?


                            PETER
                 Mr. Jameson--


                            JAMESON
                 No! Washington Square, manhole covers turn into flying
                 saucers and radios explode like A-bombs.  Did you get
                 pictures?


                            PETER
                 Can I get a word in edgewise?


                            JAMESON
                 No!  Now get outta my face, kid.


Jameson thrusts the photos back at Peter, who pulls the photo from the
manila envelope:  Spider-Man clinging upside-down on a wall.


                            PETER
                 I suppose this wouldn’t interest you…


Jameson turns the photo around, trying to figure it out.  He looks up at
Peter, holds his gaze--and tears the photo in half.  Both halves flutter
into the wastebasket.


INT.  BUGLE NEWS ROOM - DAY


PETER, WITH HIS PACK, QUIETLY CLOSES THE DOOR OF JAMESON’S OFFICE. BETTY
RISES.


                            BETTY
                 How about a cup of coffee?


                            PETER
                 Yeah.  Cream and hemlock.


Peter sits on the edge of her desk as she walks off. A thought hits him.
He pulls Reiss’ business card from his wallet and dials the number.


                            PETER
                 Hello, uh, Mr. Reiss?  I’m-- I’m the guy who wrestled Hulk
                 Hogan the other day.  The guy in the mask?


                            REISS
                       (filter)
                 I was hoping you’d call, babe.  Look, you got
                 representation?


                            PETER
                 No…


                            REISS
                       (filter)
                 Good. We’ll make it oral for now. Meet me at Rockefeller
                 Center at six tonight.


                            PETER
                 Why? It is a wrestling match, or…


                            REISS
                       (filter)
                 Letterman show, NBC. We’ll talk then.  Bye.


Betty returns with his coffee.  Peter slowly returns the receiver to its
cradle.


                            BETTY
                 Good news?


Peter ignores the coffee, pulling on his new jacket, his mind reeling.


                            PETER
                 Hey, Ma, I’m gonna be a stah…


He bangs on Jameson’s window and throws him a raspberry.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


BOARDED UP AND LOCKED.  STUDENTS GATHER AROUND A LIST OF RELOCATED COURSES.
 PETER FINDS “PSYCHICS 101-- CANCELED UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.”


EXT.  BASKETBALL COURT - DAY


A FENCED COURT NEAR CAMPUS.  A VIGOROUS GAME OF TWO-ON-TWO, FLASH AND THREE
PREPPY PALS:  NORBERT, CHIP AND WINTHROP.  FLASH DRIBBLES ANGRILY DOWN
COURT, SHOOTS, MISSES.  HE’S PISSED.


                            CHIP
                 Frustrated, Thompson?


                            WINTHROP
                 Miss Lizzy done had a headache. All weekend long.


                            FLASH
                 Shut up!


New jacket on, Peter approaches.  He scales the wire fence gracefully and
hops onto the court, sets down his pack. They ignore him.


                            PETER
                 Mind if I shoot a few?


                            CHIP
                 Peter, you don’t play basketball.


                            NORBERT
                 We’ve got even teams--


                            FLASH
                 No, Norb.  Let’s give Dr. J. here a shot.


He flings the ball toward Peter, hard.


                            FLASH
                 Come on, guy.


Peter bounces the ball experimentally, then dribbles toward the basket.


Flash nods to Winthrop, who elbows Peter and knocks the ball away.  Flash
gets it. Peter blocks Flash legally, but Flash jumps up, makes a basket and
purposely kicks Peter in the belly.  Flash grins at Peter, who doubles over
to catch his wind.


Norb recovers the ball, passes to Chip, who passes to Peter.  Winthrop
covers him, giving him a rough time, smiling.  Peter smiles right back,
shoulders Winthrop, sending him flying backward into Norb; they both fall
backward.  Peter dashes for the hoop.  Flash hooks Peter’s ankle to trip
him, but Peter jumps up, flipping Flash to the concrete.


He leaps up for a lay-up, clinging with his fingertips to the backboard for
a second, and slam-dunks the basketball.  He drops to earth with a spring.


                            PETER
                 Thanks, guy.


He grabs his pack, leaving by the gate.  The four preppies stare at him.


INT.  STUDENT UNION - DAY


A SUPER-MODERN CAFETERIA WITH VIDEO GAMES, BULLETIN BOARDS, AN ATRIUM.
ALONE, PETER SIPS HIS COFFEE, READING THE TIMES, THE REMAINS OF A SALAD
BEFORE HIM.  LIZ AND ADELE JOIN HIM WITH THEIR LUNCH TRAYS.


                            LIZ
                 Eat alone, gotta read. Social defense tactic 17
                       (beat)
                 Peter, that jacket is foul.  Lose your glasses?


                            PETER
                 Hi, Adele.


Adele looks at him, then at Liz.


                            LIZ
                 Brrr.  It’s colder than New Hampshire in here.


                            PETER
                 I’m sure you kept warm.


                            ADELE
                       (falsetto)
                 Sexual tension…


                            LIZ
                 Oh, beware of jealousy, my lord, the green-eyed monster…


                            PETER
                 Don’t misquote Othello at me.  Besides, you’d have to care
                 about somebody to strangle them.


                            LIZ
                 What’s your problem?


                            PETER
                 I’ve got no problems.


                            ADELE
                       (looks at her watch)
                 Time to get my bowling ball re-drilled.


                            LIZ
                 Peter Parker, you have no idea what I did this weekend.  Or
                 didn’t do.  It’s no business of yours either way.


Peter zips up his pack, rises.


                            LIZ
                 Sit down and stop being such a child.


                            PETER
                 This from a girl who still plays with dolls.


                            LIZ
                       (hurt)
                 That wasn’t clever.  That was just nasty.


Peter heads off.  Liz dumps her glass of milk over her plate and stifles a
scream.


INT.  ROSOMOFF’S OFFICE - DAY


AN OLD ROOM IN THE LIBRARY BUILDING.  STAR CHARTS AND AN ANCIENT SEXTANT;
BOOKS; A TELESCOPE; A LARGE REVOLVING MODEL OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM; AN ANTIQUE
SPINNING WHEEL AND A HARPSICHORD.  ODD, BUT INVITING.


Roz leans over a large table, examining a precise NYC street and subway
map.  He glances at a news clipping:  “Bronx Video Arcade Goes Tilt.”  With
a colored marker and a protractor, he traces a curved line on the map
through the Bronx street.  Other waveform lines in different colors criss-
cross the map.


                            PETER
                       (sings)
                 The Bronx is up and the Battery’s down.


Roz turns with a distracted smile.


                            ROZ
                 Peter, what can I do for you?


                            PETER
                 An extension on that astronomy paper?  Because, uh…


                            ROZ
                 Your dog ate it.


                            PETER
                 Actually, I got this spider bite…


                            ROZ
                 Pretty lame for such a smart kid.


                            PETER
                 Really, Professor, I--


Roz turns back to his map.


                            ROZ
                 You have until tomorrow.  Skip the excuses.


Peter picks up one of the news clippings:  “’Wall Crawler’ Spotted Across
NY,” and another, “L.R.R.R. Train Detours to Mongolia.”  Roz notice Peter’s
interest.


                            ROZ
                 Fortean phenomena.  Anomalies in our so-called reality.
                 Weirdness, my boy, and lots of it.


                            PETER
                 Caused by Doc Ock’s experiment?


                            ROZ
                 How much do you know about it?


                            PETER
                 Not a lot.  I saw inside of the Science Center.  What
                 exactly happened?


                            ROZ
                 Only Octavius knows for sure.  And last time I spoke to
                 him, he was on the planet Whiz-Bang.


Lucy enters with a computer print-out.  Roz compares it with an earlier
one.


                            LUCY
                 See? With enough energy on this side of the equation, the
                 slope approaches infinity.


Roz scribbles several numbers on a pad, hands the page to her.


                            ROZ
                 Run it again with these smaller values.


                            LUCY
                 Why bother? Nobody takes Ock’s equations seriously.


                            ROZ
                 I do.  Run it again.  Please.


She shrugs with her eyebrows and leaves.


                            PETER
                 Need any more help?


                            ROZ
                 No, thank you.  I’m sure you’ve got your own problems.


Roz reviews the print-out, and, as Peter turns to leave:


                            ROZ
                 Peter… that is one godawful jacket.


EXT. BANK - DAY


IN FRONT OF THE “FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SCARSDALE,” A UNIFORMED GUARD SLAMS
THE STEEL DOORS OF A BRINK’S TRUCK.  HE CLIMBS IN THE CAB BESIDE A DRIVER.


                            GUARD
                 Beers after the last pick-up?


                            DRIVER
                 Sounds good.  We’ll be done in a half-hour.


                            GUARD
                 Not at this rate.


The Driver revs the motor-- it’s not moving.  The Guard unsnaps his
holster. Without warning, two waldos SMASH THROUGH the thick glass on both
sides.


EXT. BANK- DAY


OCK HOLDS THE TRUCK ALOFT BY THE REAR BUMPER; THE REAR WHEELS SPIN.  TWO
OTHER WALDOS SURROUND THE TRUCK, SQUIRMING INTO THE CAB.  GUNSHOTS AND
PANICKED SCREAMS FROM WITHIN.  WITH HIS FOURTH WALDOS OCK TEARS OPEN THE
REAR DOOR AND GRABS SEVERAL MONEY BAGS WITH HIS HANDS.


In the bank, witnesses stare goggle-eyed.  A teller pulls the drapes for
protection.


INT. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY


LOW CEILINGS, TERMINALS, WHIRRING AIR CONDITIONING, THE CLICKING OF
STUDENTS ENTERING DATA.  ROZ ENTERS, UNCOMFORTABLE AND CLAUSTROPHOBIC HERE.
 ROZ CROSSES TO HARRY AT A SNAZZY GRAPHICS TERMINAL.


                            HARRY
                 I’ve drawn up your graphics, but… what is this all about,
                 anyway?


                            ROZ
                 Just a theory.  Let’s see it.


Harry strikes a few keys, runs the program.


                            HARRY
                 Okay… I hope I’ll get some brownie points for this, I could
                 really use them…


                            ROZ
                 I’ll do what I can.


ON SCREEN-- a graphic of stars in space.


                            HARRY
                 Standard chart of our cosmic neighborhood-- and--


The graphic zooms quickly in on the solar system, Earth, then an aerial
view of the Northeastern US.


                            HARRY
                 Home sweet home. First your original set of values--


Bluish pulses appear sporadically in a spiral in the New York area, then
stop.  Computer-generated TONES like the THROB of Ock’s experiment.


                            HARRY
                 Sporadic pulses, petering out in 96 hours or so.  But when
                 we crank up the energy variable, we get three distinct
                 phases--


He pushes a button; the screen clears and resets.


                            HARRY
                 Phase One:  the same pulses.  If the energy input keeps
                 rising and we reach a critical point-- here-- into--


Spiral flashes as before. The spiral pulses multiply and coalesce, forming
a blue funnel over New York, growing and intensifying.


                            HARRY
                 Phase Two:  An energy vacuum, sucking power into itself.
                 If it gets enough juice, we go into Phase Three:  a chain
                 reaction.  Here’s where it gets really good.


The image pulls back for a wider view as North America-- the Earth-- the
solar system-- then the surrounding stars implode and dissolve into the
blue pulse.


                            HARRY
                 Zzzz-Zap.  Big Bang in reverse, end of the universe. This’d
                 make one hell of a video game.


Rosomoff’s face registers growing dread.


INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - NIGHT


PASSENGERS POUR OUT OF AN UPTOWN LOCAL; A SIGN IN BG READS “49TH ST.
ROCKEFELLER CENTER.”  PETER EDGES AWAY FROM THE CROWD TOWARD THE END OF THE
PLATFORM, LOOKS AROUND, THEN HOPS DOWN INTO THE TRAIN BED, JOGS INTO THE
TUNNEL.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT


PETER LOOKS UP, THEN SPRINGS BACKWARD, HEAD OVER HEELS--


--and lands upside-down, feet clinging to the grimy tunnel ceiling. He
starts to unbutton his shirt-- we see  the Spider-Man costume.  Coins fall
from his pants and clang on the rails below. Peter mutters to himself,
pulls the mask over his face.


ON PETER’S CLOTHES
Spider-Man squirts a stream of webbing to tie up the bundled clothes.  A
train approaches. Spider-Man  nonchalantly attaches the stick bundle to the
ceiling.


EXT. ROCKEFELLER CENTER - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN EMERGES FROM THE SUBWAY, STROLLS TOWARD ROCKEFELLER PLAZA.  A
PEDESTRIAN MUTTERS, “WHAT AN ASSHOLE,” AND SPIDER-MAN’S WALK BECOMES
TENTATIVE, EMBARRASSED.  A CHILD:  “LOOK, MOMMY, THE CIRCUS!” ANOTHER BY-
PASSER: “EXCELLENT.” SPIDER-MAN’S WALK BECOMES MORE SELF-ASSURED.


INT. TV STUDIO - NIGHT


BACKSTAGE HUBBUB.  REISS AND SPIDER-MAN WAIT IN THE WINGS, A FEMALE A.D.
NEARBY, A MIX OF LIVE AND FILTERED SOUND FROM THE STAGE.  MONITOR SHOWS
LETTERMAN WATCHING A ”STUPID HUMAN TRICK,” A MAN PLAYING MUSIC ON HIS
TEETH.


                            REISS
                 Where’d you get the clown suit?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Like it?


                            REISS
                 Nah.  The big mask was better.


                            A.D.
                 Ten seconds.


The A.D. leads the nervous Spider-Man toward the curtain. Reiss watches the
MONITOR, where we see Letterman reading from a card--


                            LETTERMAN
                 But wait, there’s more. For arachnid lovers everywhere,
                 here’s “The Amazing Spider-Man.”  How about a tacit round
                 of applause.


ON STAGE as Spider-Man shuffles out from behind a curtain.  The tight
costume earns him surprised WHOOPS from the audience.  Letterman shakes
Spidey’s hand, then winces at his sticky palm.


                            LETTERMAN
                 Is that bug juice, or are you just glad to see me?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Sorry. I’m still getting the hang of this.


                            LETTERMAN
                 I see.  So, Amazing Spider-Man-- I’ll assume that’s not
                 your given name--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Just call me Spidey.


                            LETTERMAN
                 Can I get you a snack-- a housefly, maybe?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Thanks, I already ate.


                            LETTERMAN
                 I’ll hate myself in the morning for asking, but what
                 exactly makes you any more amazing than the average jerk on
                 the street?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Well…


He leaps straight up, somersaulting in mid-air and sticks on a Klieg light
lattice.  The audience REACTS, suitably impressed.  Letterman cocks his
head.


                            LETTERMAN
                 Oh, boy.  Must come in handy for changing light bulbs.


Spider-Man shoots a long strand of webbing to the ceiling above the
audience.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 And for my next impression-- Errol Flynn!


He swings out over the boggled crowd and clings to a wall.  Even Letterman
is dumbstruck, leans cross-armed against his desk.  Spidey does a
horizontal dance.


                            LETTERMAN
                 Hold it.  Are you a shill for Velcro?


The cameras swirl to track Spider-Man as he sings back to the stage.
Letterman sits on the edge of his desk, shakes his head.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Ta-daaa!


The BAND reprises Spidey’s “Ta-daaa!”  The audience CHEERS, Spidey bows.


                            LETTERMAN
                 All right, amazing.  Are you quite finished?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Just about.  You see, I also have this amazing strength…


With one hand, Spider-Man lifts the desk-- and Letterman-- above his head.
The audience goes wild.


INT.  TV STUDIO LOBBY - NIGHT


REISS AND SPIDER-MAN COME OUT OF AN ELEVATOR, CROSS THE LOBBY TO THE DOOR.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 So they’re airing this tonight?


                            REISS
                 Yup.  Oh, here’s your check, minus my commission.  Solid,
                 solid novelty act.


Spider-Man puts the check in his waistband. They head into the revolving
door.


EXT. FIFTH AVENUE - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN STANDS DEAD STILL OUTSIDE THE BUILDING, SHUDDERS-- STREET NOISE
FADES TO SILENCE, TRACK IN TO HIS FACE.  DISTORTED SOUNDS:  A WINDOW
SMASHING, BEN’S VOICE-- “HEY, WHAT--“  THIS IS SPIDER-MAN’S FIRST
EXPERIENCE OF “SPIDER-SENSE,” A WARNING OF DANGER.


                            REISS
                       (fading in)
                 … a couple a drinks at Sardi’s?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 What?


                            REISS
                 I asked if you felt like a drink--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (distracted)
                 No.  No, I-- my aunt and uncle.  Something’s wrong  --  I
                 need to make a phone call.


                            REISS
                 Okay, kid. Call me tomorrow.


Reiss heads off.  Spider-Man stops at a phone kiosk, picks up the receiver--



                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Mr. Reiss-- I need a quarter--


                            REISS
                 I just gave-- yeah, sure.


He gives him the coin and walks off.  Pedestrians gawk at the costumed
figure as he quickly dials.  BEHIND HIM, across the street, there’s a cut-
rate electronics store.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Ben, is everything all right?…Are you sure?
                       (relieved)
                 No, I guess it was nothing-- I just had this feeling-- no,
                 don’t wake her up… just watch Channel 4 at 12:30--


ALARM from store in BG.  A huge and menacing THIEF races into the street, a
paper bag full of cash on one hand, a small TV under his arm.  Spider-Man
leans into the kiosk to be heard, speaks loudly.


                            SPIDER-MAN (cont.)
                 Right, tonight. I know it’s late, but it’s worth it--I’ll
                 be on television!  It’s a long story--


An Armenian STOREOWNER chases the thief, who dodges cars and buses and
heads straight toward Spider-Man.  Brakes SCREECH, horns BLARE.


                            STOREOWNER
                 Stop him!  Somebody stop him!


Spider-Man dodges as the thief runs right past him and hurries down the
subway. The winded Storeowner stops by Spider-Man, cursing him in Armenian.


                            SPIDER-MAN (on phone)
                 Isn’t that great?  You won’t believe it…


                            STOREOWNER
                 Whatsa matter with you!


                            SPIDER-MAN (on phone)
                 Okay. Okay.  See you, Ben.


He hangs up, turns calmly to the irate Storeowner.


                            STOREOWNER
                 You coulda stopped him!  Done something-- Stuck your leg
                 out, tripped him-- anything!


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Oh, gimme a break.  Do I look like Charles Bronson?


Spider-Man walks off, leaving the Storeowner to his apoplexy.


EXT.  BANK MACHINE - NIGHT


CLOTHES UNDER HIS ARM, SPIDEY PULLS OUT THE CHECK, AN IMPATIENT BUSINESSMAN
AND A FISHWIFE BEHIND HIM.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Can I borrow somebody’s pen?


The businessman mutters, “Flake” under his breath, hands him a pen.  He
starts to sign “Peter,” then flips it over.  It’s made out to “Spider-Man.”


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Wonderful.  I guess I can still make a withdrawal.


                            FISHWIFE
                 Hey, nutbar, move it!


INT.  DISCO - NIGHT


COLORED LIGHTS THROB WITH THE MUSIC.  YOUNG TRENDIES CLAP WITH THE BEAT AS
SPIDER-MAN PUTS ON A FABULOUS SHOW OF ACROBATIC BREAKDANCING.


In mid-move, Spider-Man freezes-- the tingle of his “spider-sense” again.
SILENCE and TRACK IN.  We hear GUNSHOTS, a man’s GROAN, distorted.


Ambient SOUNDS of the disco return.  The crowd urges Spider-Man to
continue, but he pushes through them toward the bar.  He lifts the lower
portion of his mask over his nose to finish his Coke.  KIM-- the sexpot
Peter saw in Washington Square Park--  watches him hungrily.


                            KIM
                 I love the way you move.  What made you stop?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Second time tonight… this weird, weird feeling, like a kick
                 in the stomach…


She runs her hand over his masked face, then over his chest and stomach.


                            KIM
                 I want you.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Uh…


                            KIM
                 You’ll leave your mask on.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Uh-hu, right… excuse me…


He edges away from her stroking hand and scoots into the crowd.  She
shrugs.


EXT. PLAZA - NIGHT


A PUBLIC PLAZA IN THE THEATER DISTRICT, WITH A LARGE METAL CALDER-ESQUE
SCULPTURE.  A LIGHT CROWD:  ELEGANT THEATRE-GOERS, A FEW HOOKERS, VENDORS,
AND STREET PEOPLE.  SPIDER-MAN, HIS WEB-WRAPPED CLOTHES UNDER HIS ARM AND A
CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE IN HIS HAND, TRIES TO HAIL A CAB.  A VENDOR POPS OPEN HIS
SAMPLE CASE.


                            VENDOR
                 A watch, man.  You look like you need a watch.  These real
                 Rolexes, man.  20 bucks.


A cab pulls over. The vendor hangs in there.


                            VENDOR
                 You want a red one?  Red Rolex, right here, ten bucks.
                 Matches your tux.


Spider-Man leans into the cab.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Can you take me to Forest Hills?


                            CABBIE
                 Twenty-five bucks over the meter.  You pay tolls.


                            VENDOR
                 Hey, you buy three watches for that, man!


Spider-Man gets in, the cab starts off.  The vendor goes after a well-
dressed YUPPIE COUPLE, starts his rap again.


The peculiar THROB fills the plaza.  People turn toward the metal
sculpture, which PULSATES.


INT.  CAB - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN FACES FRONT, THE PLAZA BEHIND HIM.  THE CAB MOVES VERY SLOWLY.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 I’m in a hurry.  I’ve got to see my aunt and uncle--


                            CABBIE
                 Fella, my foot’s all the way to the floor!


EXT.  PLAZA - NIGHT


THE SCULPTURE HAS BECOME A HUGE MAGNET.  IN QUICK SUCCESSION, EVERY SMALL
METALLIC OBJECT IN THE AREA SAILS TOWARD IN FROM ALL DIRECTIONS:


The vendor’s watches fly from out of the sample case-- the man’s car keys
rip through his trousers-- his shirt studs-- the woman’s bra from within
her evening dress-- a bag lady’s shopping cart-- a hooker’s metal belt and
purse-- her pimp’s “gold” chains and rings-- a fat man’s buckle.


All fly to the sculpture and stick magnetically.  The THROB and PULSE
abruptly cease; the objects clatter to the plaza pavement.


Spider-Man’s cab-- suddenly released-- peels rubber with a SCREECH.  We see
his face looking out the rear window.


INT.  MIDTOWN TUNNEL - NIGHT


THE CAB SHOOTS OUT OF THE TUNNEL INTO QUEENS.


                            CABBIE (VO.)
                 Ah, ain’t any crazier than usual.  Albino alligators in the
                 sewers, subway mutants wit’ no faces, spontaneous human
                 combustion.  See it alla time.


INT. CAB - NIGHT


THROUGH THE CAB WINDOW AS IT TURNS INTO MAY’S BLOCK.  TWO SQUAD CARS AND A
DETECTIVE’S SEDAN SURROUND THE HOUSE.  SPIDER-MAN LEANS FORWARD, CONCERNED.


EXT. MAY’S HOUSE - NIGHT


NEIGHBORS IN NIGHTCLOTHES CLUSTER ON THE STREET, A UNIFORMED COP KEEPING
THEM BACK.  AD LIB CONFUSION.  “THE NEIGHBORHOOD’S GONE ALL TO HELL, I TELL
YA,” “SUCH A NICE MAN,” “WHAT HAPPENED?” “THEY’RE ANIMALS,” “NO RESPECT FOR
NOTHIN’,” ETC.


Spider-Man, champagne in hand, collars an old lady.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Mrs. Shapiro, what happened?


She sees the masked face, lets out a quick SHRIEK and backs away into the
milling crowd.  MAROTTA, a homicide detective in his 40s, waddles over.


                            MAROTTA
                 What’s going on here?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Somebody tell me what happened!


                            NEIGHBOR
                 A burglar!


                            TEENAGER
                 They shot him.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Shot who?  Shot who!?


                            WOMAN
                 I was doin’ the dishes--


                            TEENAGER
                 Right in the guts, blood all over.


                            MAROTTA
                 Wait.  Lieutenant Marotta, NYPD.  What’s--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 WHO?!


                            NEIGHBOR
                 Ben, Ben Parker.  Lived in that place for, oh, fifteen,
                 twenty years.


                            TEENAGER
                 Like a stuck pig, moanin’, wow.


                            OLD MAN
                 Ambulance took him away and May went--


The bottle breaks in Spider-Man’s clenching fist, the rest SMASHES to the
sidewalk.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 What hospital?


                            OLD MAN
                 Oh, I think St. Francis--


Spider-Man dashes back to the cab.


                            WOMAN
                 I was just doin’ the dishes when I heard--


                            MAROTTA
                       (yells after Spider-Man)
                 Hey, who the hell are you?


int.  hospital waiting room - night


STERILE, LONELY, HARSHLY LIT.  MAY SITS STIFFLY ON THE COUCH, HIDING
EMOTION.  THE IMPERSONAL SOUNDS OF THE PAGING SYSTEM; A TV DRONES IN BG.


Peter runs in, street clothes covering the Spider-Man outfit.  His hand
bleeds from the smashed bottle.  May looks at him, disturbingly calm.


                            MAY
                 Peter, you’re bleeding.


                            PETER
                 It’s fine.  Tell me what--


                            MAY
                 Oh, Ben gets through everything.


                            PETER
                 Aunt May, what happened?


                            MAY
                 I was napping on the couch.  There was a voice and a shot.
                 I woke up.  Ben was looking at me.


                            PETER
                 How is he?


                            MAY
                 He’ll be fine. They won’t tell me anything, but I’m sure
                 he’ll be fine.


He sits beside her, watching her.  He hugs her, she responds by patting his
head.


                            MAY
                 Stop that.  He’ll be fine.


Peter looks stoically across the lobby.  It slowly dawns on him:  he is
watching Spider-Man on the Letterman show.  Marotta and a uniformed cop
enter the hospital waiting room, move to Peter.


                            MAROTTA
                 You the nephew?


Peter nods, dazed.


                            UNIFORM COP
                 Your uncle’s a brave old dude.  Evidently the guy was
                 comin’ at your aunt, so he jumped him.  Caught a bullet,
                 but chased the guy away.  Lucky thing a black-‘n’-white was-
                 -


                            MAROTTA
                 Not now.


From the other side of the waiting room, a grim-faced DOCTOR crosses slowly
toward them.  May stands up slowly, looks at his face and shudders.


                            DOCTOR
                 Mrs. Parker, I’m sorry.  We tried--


A desperate sob.  May clutches her chest, gasps for air.  The Doctor runs
to her side.


                            DOCTOR
                 Jesus-- Code Blue!  Crash cart in the lobby, Stat!


A blur of action:  orderlies, nurses, a stretcher.  Marotta gently pulls
Peter out of the line of “fire.”


                            UNIFORM COP
                 We’ll get the bastard who did it, Mr. Parker.  He’s trapped
                 in a warehouse, see, over on 112th--


Marotta silences him with a dirty look, sighs.  He puts his arm around
Peter.


                            MAROTTA
                 Kid, leave it.  You can’t do anything.


Peter pulls away, then runs out into the night.  Marotta looks at the cop.


                            UNIFORM COP
                 Hey, I figured he oughta know!


Marotta shakes his head, walks down the hall toward the doctor.  The
Uniform Cop slumps stupidly in a chair, looks at the TV:  the end of the
Spider-Man segment.


                            LETTERMAN
                       (filter)
                 Are you quite finished?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (filter)
                 Just about.  See, I also have this amazing strength.


EXT. PAINT WAREHOUSE - NIGHT


A SWAT TEAM SURROUNDS THE DILAPIDATED STRUCTURE; SEARCHLIGHTS, SNIPERS.
FLASHES OF GUNFIRE FROM A MIDDLE STORY OF A TALL WAREHOUSE.  A TV NEWSWOMAN
BROADCASTS A LIVE REPORT FROM BEHIND THE BARRICADE.  OTHER REPORTERS BABBLE
IN BG.


                            NEWSWOMAN
                 -- is holding the police at bay with a wall of automatic
                 weapons fire--


More SHOTS ring out in BG.


                            NEWSWOMAN (cont.)
                 -- but because of the flammable chemicals, the SWAT team is
                 helpless for now.


High above her, Spider-Man clings to a wall facing the warehouse.  He
musters his courage.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (to himself)
                 Just do it, you chicken.


He shoots a long web up to the warehouse roof, loops the strand around his
hand, and swings--


-- above the stunned police. Reporters try to catch him on film as--


-- he arcs across the street to the warehouse, CRASHES through a window--


INT. PAINT WAREHOUSE -NIGHT


--AND SCATTERS A PYRAMID OF STACKED PAINT CANS, SPLATTERING PAINT
EVERYWHERE IN THE DIMLY-LIT LOFT.  THE GUNMAN FIRES AFTER THE ELUSIVE
SHADOW, STROBE-LIKE STREAKS OF LIGHT ILLUMINATE SPIDER-MAN-- A VAT OF
TURPENTINE EXPLODES INTO FLAME.


On the other side of the cavernous room, Spider-Man kicks over a huge
bucket of red paint, which floods across the floor like a blood river.  The
gunman, only half-visible in the dim, smoky light, whirls and FIRES again
at Spider-Man.


                            GUNMAN
                 I’ll kill you-- I’ll kill you!!!


Bullets spray in every direction, exploding paint cans in a crazed rainbow
of fluid and flames.


                            GUNMAN
                 WHERE ARE YOU!?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Up here.


The gunman looks up, aims at the ceiling-- Spider-Man hangs from the
rafters.  Just as his trigger finger clenches, a jet of webbing shoots into
the barrel of the gun, which BACKFIRES in his hands.  Spider-man leaps
down, his boot connects with the man’s jaw.  Spider-Man pulls his mask off,
stands above the unconscious gunman.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Get up!  I want you to look into my eyes when I--


Spider-Man hoists the gunman off the floor in fury and prepares to smash
the man’s skull. He hesitates… and sees the face of the Gunman in the
dancing firelight.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Oh, no…
                       (desperate)
                 NO!


EXT. FIFTH AVENUE - NIGHT


FLASHBACK:  SPIDER-MAN ON THE PHONE.  THE THIEF RUSHES TOWARD HIM AND WE
FREEZE-FRAME ON HIS FACE-- THE THIEF AND THE GUNMAN ARE THE SAME MAN.


INT.  PAINT WAREHOUSE -NIGHT


POLICE RUSH IN, GUNS DRAWN.  SILENCE, BUT FOR THE CRACKLE OF FLAMES AND
BURSTING OF PAINT CANS. THROUGH THE SMOKE, THEY SEE SOMETHING LARGE HANGING
FROM  THE RAFTERS LIKE A YO-YO.  IT’S THE GUNMAN, MOANING, COMPLETELY
ENVELOPED IN WEBBING.


EXT. COURTHOUSE ROOF - NIGHT


DAWN STARTS TO BREAK OVER MANHATTAN.  CAMERA CRANES DOWN TO PICK UP SPIDER-
MAN ON THE PEAK OF A MARBLE FACADE, LOOKING VERY SMALL INDEED.


CLOSER
He tears off the mask.  Peter’s eyes are red-rimmed, past tears.  He pulls
off his gloves:  one hand still bleeds from the crushed bottle.  He pulls
the check from his waistband, stares at it… then slowly rips it into small
pieces.  He stands, watching the confetti-like bits flutter downward-- then
violently rips the tunic from his chest.  He pauses:  we see the web-
shooters still taped to his arms.  Peter throws the mask, gloves and tunic
down toward the street.


As the blue and red costume drifts in the wind, pas an engraved motto:
WITH GREAT POWER COMES GREAT RESPONSIBILITY.


EXT.  CEMETERY - DAY


A CHILLY MORNING.  AN URBAN CEMETERY IN QUEENS.  IN A BLACK SUIT, PETER
TOSSES A FLOWER INTO AN OPEN GRAVE.  SEVERAL MOURNERS, INCLUDING SOME
NEIGHBORS, BID HIM GOOD-BYE.  HE LOOKS NUMB.


                            MRS. SHAPIRO
                 May would have liked the eulogy.  How is she?


                            PETER
                       (absently)
                 Okay… the doctors say no shocks for a while.  She needs
                 rest.


                            MRS. SHAPIRO
                 You could use some too, honey.


Peter nods, she hugs him.  A hefty, blue-collar FRIEND of Ben’s, looking
awkward in a suit and tie, shakes Peter’s hand.


                            FRIEND
                 Ain’t nothing you coulda done, Peter.


No nod to this one.  Peter watches the man walk off, then looks at the
grave.


EXT.  ELECTRODYNE FACTORY - DAY


A LOADING BAY TO THE VAST WAREHOUSE.  THE SALESMAN CHECKS OFF A LIST AS
WORKERS LOAD ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT INTO THE BACK OF A RENTED TRUCK.  A HUGE
SECTION OF ALUMINUM PIPE SITS NEARBY.  OCK WATCHES.  THE SALESMAN WAVES THE
WORKERS AWAY.


                            SALESMAN
                 Okay, boys, we need a forklift for that pipe.
                       (To Ock)
                 Where do you want the bill sent?


Ock pulls a wad of crisp bills from his trench coat, hands it to the
astonished man.


                            SALESMAN
                 I’ll… uh… get you a receipt…


He starts off into the warehouse, counting the cash, then stops, hearing a
heavy CLANK behind him.  He turns to see:


The enormous section of pipe sitting in the truck bed.  Ock climbs into the
cab and drives away.


INT.  STUDENT UNION - DAY


PETER, STILL IN HIS SUIT AND LOOKING BURNED OUT, SITS WITH HARRY OVER
COFFEE.  LIZ AND ADELE, CARRYING BREAKFAST TRAYS, APPROACH FROM THE CASHIER
IN BG.


                            HARRY
                 Jesus Christ.


                            PETER
                 Mm-hmm.


                            HARRY
                 And you let me go on about Rosomoff working me too hard?  I
                 feel like a complete idiot.


                            PETER
                 You’re not half the idiot I am, Harry.


Adele and Liz set their trays on the adjoining table.  Flash enters in BG.


                            LIZ
                 Well, look who’s dressing for success.


                            ADELE
                 At least this ensemble doesn’t glow in the dark.


                            HARRY
                 Let him be.


                            LIZ
                 Why? He knows how to defend himself.  Maybe too well.


Flash sits by Liz, waving a copy of the Bugle.  Peter’s photo of Spider-Man
on page one-- with a barely perceptible rip down the middle.  The headline
reads: “TV CLOWN ESCAPES CRIME SCENE,” and subhead, “’Spider-Man’ sought
for questioning.”


                            FLASH
                 Hey, guys.  Check it out-- I saw this dud on the tube last
                 night. He is incredibly cool.


                            LIZ
                 I saw him too.  He was silly and obnoxious.


                            ADELE
                 And Flash isn’t?


                            LIZ
                 Be nice.


                            HARRY
                 Yeah, take pity on the feeble-minded.


                            FLASH
                       (the insults pass him by)
                 No, no, listen. They’re tryin’ to say he was in cahoots
                 with this killer--


                            HARRY
                 Flash, drop it--


                            FLASH
                 -- but they got it all wrong.  Any fool can figure it out.
                 Spider-Man nailed this guy!


Flash guzzles Liz’s glass of milk, to her annoyance.


                            FLASH
                 I mean, Spidey is one guy I’d like to meet!


                            ADELE
                 Toads of a feather…


Adele notices the photo credit.


                            ADELE
                 Peter-- you took this picture?


                            LIZ
                 Let me see.


Liz takes the paper, Flash reads it with her. Peter gets ready to leave.


                            FLASH
                 Parker, you amaze me!  You know this guy? Who is he,
                 anyway?  Where did he come from?  Is he a cop, a martial
                 arts freak?


                            PETER
                 He’s a mistake.


Peter walks away.


                            FLASH
                 Mistake?  Hey, guy, get back here!


                            LIZ
                 Hm.  What a lump.


                            ADELE
                 What’s with him?


                            HARRY
                 Nothing much.


Harry rises with his and Peter’s coffee cups.


                            HARRY (cont.)
                 His aunt had a coronary.  His uncle was murdered by that
                 guy Spider-Man caught.  No, nothing much at all.


Harry exits, letting the news sink in.


INT. ROSOMOFF’S OFFICE - DAY


ROZ LEANS ON HIS DESK BY THE MAP; MAROTTA TINKERS WITH THE ANTIQUE SEXTANT.


                            MAROTTA
                 You were the last one to see Thorkel.  In Octavius’
                 hospital room.


                            ROZ
                 So you’ve found Thorkel?


                            MAROTTA
                 Some of him… char-broiled bones. Teeth. We ruled out
                 suicide.  Any bad blood between him and Ock?


Roz gently takes the sextant away from him.


                            ROZ
                 Octavius wasn’t the murderer type.


                            MAROTTA
                 But you said he went off a little, after the accident, when
                 those mechanical arms--


                            ROZ
                 Waldos.


                            MAROTTA
                 Right. We have reason to believe he also robbed an armored
                 truck and killed two men. With the waldos.


Roz reacts to this, then leans over the map.  Marotta joins him.  Peter
enters and stands politely by the door. Neither man notices him.


                            ROZ
                 Lieutenant, I’ve triangulated recent bizarre events-- the
                 Bronx, Jersey, Brooklyn-- all rippling out from--
                       (points)
                 Here.  The E.S.U. Science Center.  Octavius’ experiment
                 seems to have opened a hole in space-time, drastically
                 changing the interrelation between molecular binding,
                 electromagnetism and gravity--


                            MAROTTA
                 Yeah, that’s fascinating, but I’m just a fat, dumb cop
                 lookin’ for a psycho killer--


                            ROZ
                 There’s an infinitely greater danger. If--
                       (sees he won’t get through)
                 Listen.  The only thing Octavius cares about is repeating
                 his experiment.  To do that, he needs a radioactive
                 catalyst, SL 270.


He hands the cop a list.  Marotta nods.


                            MAROTTA
                 Toxic dumps, huh.


                            ROZ
                 And he’ll need a cyclotron.  He can’t use ours-- he’s
                 already destroyed it.
                       (hands him a second list)
                 Guard every nuclear accelerator on the Eastern Seaboard.
                 New Haven, Long Island, two in Cambridge--


                            MAROTTA
                 You sure about all this?


                            ROZ
                       (nods)
                 I know him.


Marotta recognizes Peter; Roz looks at him as well. They stare at him.


                            PETER
                 Hi.  Professor, I’m here about another extension.  My uncle
                 died.


Roz looks at him dubiously, then sees he’s telling the truth.  Marotta
slips the lists into his coat.


                            ROZ
                 Of course.


                            MAROTTA
                 It’s a lot of ground to cover. We’ll try.
                       (to Peter)
                 Funny coincidence, huh?


                            ROZ
                 No such thing as coincidence.  “God does not play dice with
                 the universe.”


                            MAROTTA
                 Einstein, right?  We’ll see ya.


                            ROZ
                 Peter-- my condolences.


Marotta walks out. Peter nods, turns to leave.  Roz picks up the day’s
Bugle.


                            ROZ
                 This photo you took of “Spider-Man”--


                            PETER
                 Luck.  The right place at the right time.


                            ROZ
                 Really.  I’d like to speak with him.


                            PETER
                 I don’t think I’ll be running into him.


                            ROZ
                 You never know.  Go get some sleep.


                            PETER
                 I’ll try. Thanks.


Roz turns back to his map.  Peter watches him for a moment, then exits.


INT.  PETER’S APARTMENT- DAY


ON THE PHONE, TIE LOOSENED. WE HEAR REISS’ ANGRY SQUEALS THROUGH THE
RECEIVER.


                            PETER
                 No… No, thanks, but… No, Mr. Reiss-- I’m finished with the
                 act!… Okay, I’m a fool… Look, that’s it, no more Spider-Man-
                 - I’m sorry.  Good-bye.


He hangs up and flops face-down on the mattress, burying his face in the
pillow. The PHONE RINGS. He glares at it, but answers.


                            PETER
                 What.


INT.  JAMESON’S OFFICE - DAY


ALL SMILES, JAMESON SITS ON HIS DESK, A COPY OF TODAY’S BUGLE IN ONE HAND.


                            JAMESON (on phone)
                 Parker, I love you.  We scooped every paper in the country
                 on this Spider-Man jerk!  I want more, Parker. I want more!


A beat.  Jameson glares.


                            JAMESON (on phone)
                 What?  Aww, don’t be an ass!  Get pictures of him robbing a
                 bank, or kicking a dog-- anything!  This guy’s the best bad
                 guy since Mengele, or Son a’ Sam, or J.R. Ewing!… Eh?  Get
                 outta here, nobody wants a hero!


INT.  PETE’S APARTMENT


PETER LOOKS AT THE SQUEAKING RECEIVER, HANGS UP AND UNPLUGS THE PHONE.


INT. JAMESON’S OFFICE - DAY


STILL ON THE PHONE. BETTY, EXCITED, ENTERS AND HANDS JAMESON A SALES
REPORT.


                            JAMESON (cont.)
                 Get this-- we sold out!  I’ll double the print run!  I’ll
                 slot you on page one for the next month, buddy!  I’ll--


He finally notices the dead line.


                            JAMESON
                 Parker?
                       (hangs up; to Betty)
                 What a newsman, on the job already!


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT - DAY


PETER STANDS WITH THE OPEN COSTUME BOX IN HIS HANDS, LOOKING AT THE SECOND
RED-AND-BLUE OUTFIT.  HE DECIDES SOMETHING, THEN STUFFS IT IN THE “LEIBER’S
NOVELTIES” BAG, ALONG WITH THE WEB-SHOOTERS AND THE OBNOXIOUS NEW-WAVE
JACKET.


EXT.  EAST VILLAGE STREET - DAY


BAG IN HAND, PETER LEAVES HIS BUILDING AND CROSSES THE STREET.


                            LIZ (OS)
                 Peter! Wait a minute!


He pauses, Liz runs up to him, a little breathless.


        LIZ            PETER
I was just coming by to apologize I’m sorry if I was--


Each pauses to let the other speak, then--


        LIZ            PETER
No, I didn’t know about--    I’ve been acting like a--


Both look at each other, then giggle. The tension eases.  They walk
together.


                            LIZ
                 What’s in the bag?  Garbage?


                            PETER
                 Sort of.  I’m returning the-- that outfit that you hated so
                 much.  Maybe I can get my money back.


                            LIZ
                 Oh, don’t do it on my account--


                            PETER
                 No, it wasn’t only you-- it -- it just wasn’t my style.
                 Hey, look-- let’s go to lunch.  Someplace nice for a
                 change.


                            LIZ
                 This from a man who winces at the cost of a pretzel?


                            PETER
                 That was then.  I’m better since the lobotomy.


He points to an imaginary scar on his forehead; they laugh and walk off.


EXT.  ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION - DAY


A WALDO THRUSTS INTO FRAME, PENETRATING A MASS OF CIRCUITS, WIRES AND
SWITCHES.  SPARKS AND OZONE FILL THE AIR.  ALL FOUR OF OCK’S ARMS WORK AT
ONCE, CUTTING AND RESPLICING HIGH-TENSION WIRES IN THE CAGED TRANSFORMER.
OCK’S EYES FRENETICALLY SCAN A SERIES OF VOLTMETERS; ONE REGISTERS
ESCALATING LEVELS WHILE OTHERS JUMP, THEN DROP.


A LINEMAN sees Ock from the rear, the waldos stretching from his torso.


                            LINEMAN
                 Hey!


Ock ignores him.  The Lineman pulls a heavy wrench from his toolbelt and
brandishes it, approaching warily.  Without turning around, Ock extends a
waldo backward, grabs the wrench and crushes it in two. The Lineman runs
off.


Near the fence, the panicked Lineman slams into two GUARDS, male and
female.


                            LINEMAN
                 My wrench!  He-- it-- arms!


The guards draw their guns as he clambers over the fence.


Another voltmeter needle swings as Ock throws a switch.


                            FEMALE GUARD
                 Freeze!  Hands up!


Ock turns, the waldos waving like Medusa’s hair.  The guard steps forward,
her bullet RICOCHETS off a telescoping metal arm.  It grabs the gun and the
woman’s hand, squeezing.  A second waldo whips around the male guard’s
neck, shakes him like a terrier with a rat, then hurls him into a wall of
wires.


Electricity jolts his body and knocks him out.  Ock’s attention returns to
his work.  Released, the woman falls to her knees in pain, crawls to her
fallen comrade.  Her hand extends for his revolver.  But her body is
dragged away from the gun-- a waldo had her ankle.  She SCREAMS.  Another
waldo slaps her head, knocks her out.


A voltmeter reads zero.  Ock frowns-- then spies a locked metal cabinet
marked “Third Rail Circuit-- NY Transit Authority.”  Ock considers this.


INT. CHIC FRENCH RESTAURANT- DAY


AN IMPERIOUS WAITER SETS DESSERT BEFORE PETER AND LIZ, OUT OF PLACE IN THE
REFINED ENVIRONMENT.


                            PETER
                 -- but at least Aunt May’s okay now. I really have to stop
                 by the hospital this afternoon.


                            LIZ
                 Do you mind if I come too?


                            PETER
                 I think I’d like that.


He ignores his dessert, stares out the window.


                            PETER
                 They keep saying there’s nothing I could’ve done.  That’s a
                 lie.  I could’ve done something.  If only I’d paid
                 attention to my feelings.


                            LIZ
                 You’re not trained for that.  None of us are… I mean,
                 sometimes I…
                       (practical)
                 Okay, let’s say you had gone back.  What then?  Are you
                 bulletproof?


                            PETER
                 Well, no.


                            LIZ
                 So?  The next day I’d read, “Peter Parker murdered,” and
                 I’d feel…


                            PETER
                 You’d feel what?


                            LIZ
                       (covering)
                 Listen.  You think you’re responsible for everything that
                 happens.  Don’t flagellate yourself-- and don’t flatter
                 yourself, either.  You’re not the center of the universe.
                 You’re just…Peter.


                            PETER
                 Am I?  I’m not so sure.
                       (looks at her)
                 I used to be sure of a lot of things.  Oh, different things
                 from week to week, but now-- I’m not sure of anything
                 anymore.


                            LIZ
                 I know what you mean.  I…


He looks a little queasy-- the spider-sense again.  Liz’s voice and the
restaurant SOUND drop out, TRACK IN TO TIGHT CLOSE-UP on Peter.  We hear
the Ock THROB and PANICKED CRIES of people in a subway car.


Abruptly, we’re back to reality.  And Liz is being oddly inarticulate,


                            LIZ
                 Maybe unsure is-- good.  Maybe you feel more that way.
                 Like I was sure you and I were just friends-- and that’s
                 it.  But-- last weekend, when I was with Flash-- all I
                 could think of was--


She sees Peter is paying absolutely no attention.  She bangs her spoon
against her glass.


                            LIZ
                 Hello.  Earth to Peter.  Are you listening?


                            PETER
                 Unh-huh.  Excuse me.  I’ve gotta go.


He grabs the Lieber’s bag and hurried out.  The waiter sets the check down
before the boiling Liz.


                            LIZ
                 I think I really do hate him.


EXT.  OFFICE DISTRICT - DAY


SUCH AS WALL STREET.  “WALK” AND “DON’T WALK” SIGNS BLINK SIMULTANEOUSLY,
STOPLIGHTS FLASH WITH NO PATTERN THEN EXPLODE IN SERIES DOWN THE STREET.
PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICLE TRAFFIC SNARLS, HONKING HORNS, FRAZZLED NERVES.


The THROB begins-- low, muffled, under the street cacophony.  At an
intersection, two cars coming from opposite directions suddenly swerve
toward each other. The drivers spin their steering wheels to avoid a crash,
but magnetic attraction makes them slide through the intersection, smash
together sideways and stick.  The drivers, inches apart, look at each
other, baffled.


A taxi swerves around the wreck--


EXT.  WARPED STREET - DAY


--AND DOWN THIS LESS-CROWDED STREET.  THE THROB SWELLS.


THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
The PULSE spreads through the asphalt ahead, rippling mirage-like.


The taxi’s wheels sink into the liquefying street, now the consistency of
quicksand.  The driver crawls out his window and leaps to the sidewalk as
the gooey street swallows the cab.


Spider-Man swings to the edge of an overlooking building, watches the cab
sink.  An earthquake-like RUMBLE from below.


From beneath the street, a subway train BURSTS UP, arcs into the air with a
ROAR--


the three-car train sails through the air past Spider-Man--


a huge hole opens like an iris in the facade of a nearby modern office
building


the train thrusts into the shimmering hole, which clamps shut around it.


The THROB and PULSE cease. The street below re-solidifies, trapping half-
buried cars.  SCREAMS, HONKS, SIRENS.


INT.  OFFICE BUILDING - DAY


BUSINESSMEN AND SECRETARIES PEEK FROM UNDER DESKS AND AROUND DOORWAYS.  ONE-
AND-A-HALF SUBWAY CARS SIT INCONGRUOUSLY IN THEIR OFFICE.  THE PASSENGERS
CLAMBER OUT WINDOWS, PRY DOORS OPEN.


INT.  MIDDLE CAR - DAY


SOLID STRUCTURAL GLASS BISECTS THE MIDDLE CAR.  COMMUTERS IN THE OUTSIDE
HALF OF THE CAR PRESS THEIR FACES AGAINST THE GLASS, POUND FOR HELP.


EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY


THE OTHER ONE-AND-A-HALF CARS OF THE SUBWAY PROTRUDE FROM THE SHEER FACE OF
THE BUILDING, THE LAST CAR DANGLING VERTICALLY BY ITS HITCH, TEN FLOORS
ABOVE THE STREET.


INT.  LAST CAR - DAY


VERTICAL.  A PILE OF A HALF-DOZEN COMMUTERS ON THE “BOTTOM END.”  AD LIB
PANICKED CRIES: “GIVE ME A HAND--“  “WHAT--!”  “I WAS GOING TO TAKE THE
BUS!”   “NOT THE DOOR!”  A WILD-EYED TEENAGER PULLS OPEN THE REAR DOOR, A
BAG OF FRUIT SPILLS DOWN--


EXT. WARPED STREET - DAY


AND SPLATTERS ON THE PAVEMENT. A CROWD GATHERS, POINTS UP.  MORE AD LIB
CRIES:  “THIS CITY’S NUTS!”  “GET THE FIRE DEPARTMENT!”  “OH, MY GOD!”


EXT.  OFFICE BUILDING - DAY


SPIDER-MAN SHOOTS A LONG STREAM OF WEBBING AND SWINGS TO THE GLASS-FRONT
BUILDING.


INT.  MIDDLE CAR - DAY


SPIDER-MAN’S HEAD POPS IN AN OPEN WINDOW.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Hello.


The passengers stare as he climbs in, backs them away from the glass wall.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Okay, folks, stand back!


He kicks it--nothing.  Frustrated, he grabs a metal railing.  Two
passengers help him uproot it.  Spider-Man uses the pole as a battering
ram, punching a hole in the window.  Office workers aid the passengers.
Spider-Man runs toward the last car.


INT.  LAST CAR - DAY


THE 2ND AND 3RD CAR ARE AT RIGHT-ANGLES TO EACH OTHER. SPIDEY OPENS THE
DOOR AT THE “TOP” OF THE CAR, SCAMPERS DOWN THE GRAB-HANDLES TO THE PEOPLE
BELOW.  THE HALF-DOZEN PASSENGERS CLING TO SEATS.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Cavalry’s here-- get the wagons in a circle.


He hefts a ROTUND WOMAN over his shoulder.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Have you tried Weight Watchers?


She whacks him with her purse as he scampers straight up the floor.


EXT.  LAST CAR


THE DOOR BETWEEN CARS.  SPIDER-MAN PUSHES THE WOMAN UP-- HELPING HANDS FROM
THE MIDDLE CAR LIFT HER TO SAFETY.


EXT. WARPED STREET - DAY


THE CROWD PARTS AS A HOOK AND LADDER TRUCK RUMBLES UP OVER THE SIDEWALK.


EXT. LAST CAR - DAY


SPIDER-MAN PUSHES ANOTHER PASSENGER TO SAFETY.  THE THICK IRON LINK BETWEEN
THE CARS CREAKS, BENDING UNDER THE STRAIN.


EXT. WARPED STREET


THE FIRE LADDER RESTS AGAINST THE BUILDING, BELOW AND TO ONE SIDE OF THE
SWAYING CAR.


INT. LAST CAR


THE SUBWAY CAR LURCHES PERILOUSLY.  SPIDEY RETURNS TO THE TWO REMAINING
PEOPLE.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Let’s take  the scenic route.


EXT.  LAST CAR


SPIDER-MAN LOWERS A WEB-WRAPPED GIRL DOWN THROUGH THE DOOR, SWINGS HER LIKE
A PENDULUM.  AFTER A CLOSE MISS, A FIREMAN ATOP THE LADDER GRABS THE GIRL.


The iron link bends nearly open.


Spider-Man fastens a thread of webbing to the outside of the car.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 First floor, ladies lingerie, sporting goods…


He grabs the terrified man around the waist, then lets out the line of
webbing in short bursts to lower himself and the man to the sidewalk.


EXT.  WARPED STREET


FIREMEN RUSH TO HELP, A WHITE MERCEDES LIMO PULLS UP.  THE CHAUFFEUR OPENS
THE DOOR FOR THE POLITICO, WHO BEAMS FOR THE NEWS CAMERAS.


                            POLITICO
                 Where’s the hero?  I want to thank him personally for his
                 fine--


An ominous GRATING of iron from above.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Get back! It’s coming down!


He scatters the crowd.  The Politico looks up at the subway.  The chauffeur
runs.


                            POLITICO
                 Oh, no-- my limo-- my Mercedes!


He scrambles to his car.  Spidey intercepts him, hefts him like a sack of
potatoes and runs to cover as--


the subway car rips away from its link--


and falls, flattening the limo. Pieces scatter in every direction.


Cameras click as Spider-Man sets the whimpering Politico down.


                            POLITICO
                 My Mercedes…


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 This is all you need.


He hands him the Mercedes hood ornament.


                            REPORTER
                 Hey, you some kind of superhero?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Actually, I’m just trying to do as little harm as possible.


                            BUSINESSMAN
                 Can I get your autograph?  Er-- for my kid, he’s a fan.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Fans? I have fans?


He starts to sign “Pete--, “ crosses it out, signs “Spidey” with a
flourish.


                            BYSTANDER
                 He was here before it happened!  I bet he caused the whole
                 thing!


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 What!?


                            POLITICO
                 He assaulted me!  I want him arrested!


                            FIREMAN
                 Councilman, this guy just saved a whole buncha lives--


                            COP
                 Okay, Zorro, assume the position.


The cop pushes Spider-Man spread-eagle against a car.


                            FIREMAN
                 Give the guy a break!


                            POLITICO
                 Take off his mask!  He destroyed my car!  That’s city
                 property!


The cop, fireman and politico argue, ignoring Spider-Man, who shakes his
head and scampers up the wall.  The crowd APPLAUDS; he waves and disappears
over a roof.


INT. JAMESON’S OFFICE - DAY


JAMESON LEANS BACK IN HIS CHAIR BY AN OPEN WINDOW, READING A COMPETITOR’S
PAPER. LIKE KILROY, SPIDER-MAN PEAKS OVER THE SILL, THEN LEANS IN TO TAP
JAMESON’S SHOULDER.


                            JAMESON
                 Ak!


He spins up out of his chair and backs away, horrified.


                            JAMESON
                 Don’t hurt me, you Thing you!  I’ve got scummy lawyers like
                 you wouldn’t believe--


Spider-Man crawls the rest of the way in and sits on a wall, chin in hand.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Relax, Jameson.  This is business.  I know you want photos
                 of me, so I’ll give your boy Parker an exclusive.  On one
                 condition--


                            JAMESON
                 I don’t submit to blackmail!  The first amendment protects
                 my freedom to tell the news as I imagine it, and--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Would you cool it already?


                            JAMESON
                 Police, help!  Po-- mmph.


Web goo shoots out and covers Jameson’s mouth.  Jameson inches to the door.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Thank you.  Now, repeat after me-- Spider-Man is a good
                 guy. On the side of right, and niceness, and cute baby
                 animals and all that.


                            JAMESON
                 Frmpph-yrr.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Fine.


Spider-Man webs the door locked as Jameson grabs the knob.  Betty and
others gather at the glass partition, amused.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Your friendly, neighborhood Spider-Man could use the good
                 p.r. at the moment.


He heads for the window.  Jameson points frantically at his glued-up mouth.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Oh, that?  It’ll come unstuck in a half-hour or so. Your
                 mouth needs the rest.  Bye.


                            JAMESON
                 Hmf-hrr?


Spider-Man waves at the laughing Bugle employees and drops out.


INT.  MAY’S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY


A FOUR-PERSON WARD.  MAY’S CORNER ALREADY REFLECTS HER PERSONALITY: BRIGHT
FLOWERS, THE PHOTO-CUB OF PETER, A PATCHWORK COMFORTER.  SHE SITS UP IN
BED, ALERT BUT TIRED.  LIZ SITS BESIDE HER ON THE BED.  AN OLD CRONE IN THE
NEXT BED, WATCHING A MUTED TV NEWS ACROSS THE ROOM-- FEATURING SPIDEY
FOOTAGE.


                            LIZ
                 He left.  I couldn’t believe it-- he just left!  It’s as if
                 he’s somewhere else… I’m only getting a piece of him.


                            MAY
                 When Peter was little, he loved to hide.  In closets, under
                 the sink.  He needed a secret place.  But when I’d look for
                 him, he’d laugh… he wanted to be found.


                            LIZ
                 I don’t think he wants me to find him.


                            AGED CRONE
                 Sure he does, toots.  May, gimme dat changer thingie.


May flings the remote control across to the Crone’s bed.


                            MAY
                 Television is for idiots.  Read a book.


                            AGED CRONE
                 Read this.


The Crone gives May a ”fongoo” bent elbow.  Liz draws the curtain between
the beds.


                            MAY
                 I wish Ben said that to me, just once.  I never let up,
                 always needling him, telling him what to do.


Liz takes May’s hand.


                            MAY
                 Maybe I was hiding.  For years, I never told Ben the one
                 important thing.


                            LIZ
                 He knew.


                            MAY
                 Some things you should say anyway.


                            LIZ
                 Even if they’re not clever.


                            MAY
                 Even if you’ve heard them a million times in every stupid
                 pop song ever written.


                            LIZ
                 What if you get hurt?


                            MAY
                 What if the world ends tomorrow?


They look at each other.  We hear the TV--


                            NEWSCASTER (filter)
                 -- still baffled as to the cause of the subway disaster.
                 The alleged “Spider-Man” is still wanted for questioning.
                 In other news, police have a suspect in yesterday’s armored
                 truck robbery and double murder--


EXT.  NEW YORK STREETS - DAY


WITH SPIDER-MAN
SWINGING FROM SKYSCRAPER TO SKYSCRAPER-- REELING, LIKE A ROLLER-COASTER
THROUGH THE CONCRETE CANYONS.


From street level, looking up as Spider-Man swings like Tarzan. Pedestrians
react:  “Wowie,” “Check that out,” “What’s he advertising!” “It’s that jerk
Spider-Man,” etc.


EXT. CROWDED STREET - DAY


OCK, TRENCH-COATED AS USUAL, DRIVES HIS RENTED TRUCK. IT SPUTTERS TO A HALT
IN THE MIDDLE OF TRAFFIC.  HORNS, IMPATIENT YELLS.


INT. RENTAL TRUCK - DAY


THE GAS GAUGE READS EMPTY.  OCK CLIMBS OUT, LEAVING THE TRUCK BLOCKING THE
STREET.


EXT. CROWDED STREET- DAY


SPIDER-MAN’S POV:  DIFFUSE, EXCEPT FOR OCK IN FOCUS AS HE WALKS THROUGH
TRAFFIC, OBLIVIOUS TO THE UPROAR HE’S CAUSED.


STREET LEVEL


A waldo tears off the driver’s door of a commuter’s Cadillac.  Ock slides
in.


                            OCK
                 Out.


                            COMMUTER
                 Sure thing.


He scrambles out the passenger door.


Spider-Man swoops down and across the street, still above Ock.


EXT.  NEW YORK STREETS - DAY


THE CADDY SHOOTS AROUND TRAFFIC, THROUGH RED LIGHTS-- WHILE SPIDEY SWINGS
RIGHT BEHIND IT, LOSING GROUND.


To avoid congestion, Ock drives on the sidewalk, scattering panicked
pedestrians.


Spider-Man clings to a wall, shaking his head.  He leaps down and --


-- lands on the roof of a fast taxi paralleling Ock.  The cabbie ignores
the CLUNK.


Ock rounds a corner, Spider-Man leaps from the taxi to the rear seat of a
motorcycle ridden by a BIKER CHICK in leathers and helmet.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Could you do me a favor and, er--


                            BIKER CHICK
                 -- follow that car?  Love to, but you gotta wear a helmet.
                 It’s the law.


He takes the spare helmet from the sissy bar and fastens it on.


They trail Ock’s car through downtown, drawing stares.


EXT.  GEORGE WASHINGTON BRIDGE - DAY


OCK’S CADDY SPEEDS UP AN ON-RAMP.  THE BIKER CHICK, CLOSE BEHIND, PULLS
OVER.


                            BIKER
                 I don’t do Jersey.  Bad vibes.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 I’m hip.  Thanks for the lift.


He hands her the helmet and she screeches off. Spider-Man spies an
approaching semi, runs-- and leaps, clinging to the side of the trailer.


The semi moves over the bridge.  Ock’s Caddy is several cars ahead, halfway
over the bridge.  Spider-Man crawls up to the top of the trailer.  A cloudy
sky, an impending storm.


EXT. JERSEY TURNPIKE - DAY


STANDING ATOP THE TRAILER WITH HANDS ON HIPS, SPIDER-MAN SEES OCK VEER ONTO
AN EXIT.  AS THE TRUCK PASSES THE EXIT, SPIDEY SWINGS ON AN OVERHEAD EXIT
SIGN TOWARD THE OVERPASS.


Spider-Man lands on the overpass. Ock’s car recedes out of sight. There are
no buildings to swing from, no vehicles to cling to.  It starts to rain.
Spider-Man sighs and starts walking.


EXT.  MUDDY STREET - NIGHT


SUNSET. DRIZZLE.  A SLEAZY AREA OF WRECKING YARDS AND DUMPS.  A POLICE CAR
WITH TWO GAPING HOLES IN THE WINDSHIELD -- AND TWO PATROLMEN DEAD INSIDE.
CAMERA RISES OVER A CONCRETE WALL WITH RUSTING SIGNS: “TOXIC WASTE DUMP
#49,” AND “HAZARD-- RADIOACTIVE AND POISONOUS MATERIALS,” WITH A
RADIOACTIVITY SYMBOL AND SKULL AND CROSSBONES.  OVER THE BARBED WIRE ATOP
THE WALL, WE SEE WITHIN.


EXT. TOXIC WASTE DUMP - NIGHT


A NIGHTMARISH INDUSTRIAL LANDSCAPE:  GIANT VATS OVER-BRIMMING WITH RANCID
CHEMICALS; STACKED, RUSTING DRUMS; PUDDLES OF VISCOUS FLUID ON THE GRAVEL
BEDDING.


In an open concrete bunker, Ock uses his human hands to pull open a vault-
like drawer. Inside are dozens of sealed canisters, all bearing “Danger--
Radioactivity” warnings.  He checks through them, discarding unwanted
canisters haphazardly.  One near the back catches his eye:  “SL 270” is
scrawled on the stained label. He plucks it out, examines it, nodding.


                            SPIDER-MAN (O.S.)
                 Open that now and you’ll spoil Christmas.


Ock whirls around. Spider-Man drops down from atop a chemical vat, clucking
his tongue and sauntering toward him.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Surprise!


                            OCK
                 Surprise…


He pulls open his overcoat-- all four waldos telescope toward the
astonished Spider-Man.  They encircle his body, squeezing like pythons.
Spider-Man gulps for air, struggling desperately against the steel arms.
He wriggles a hand free, shoots webbing up and pulls himself from Ock’s
clutches.


Ock grabs the small canister-- but a stream of webbing shoots down and
jerks the container up to Spider-Man on the roof of the bunker. He springs
down to the ground on the run.


Ock’s waldos lift an oil drum and hurl it over his head. The drum BURSTS
ahead of Spidey, spraying a greasy cloud of noxious gas and sizzling
liquid.  Spider-Man gags as Ock rumbles toward him.


                            OCK
                 You are an insect!


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Doc, you know better than that.  Insects are a completely
                 different order from spiders--


Spider-Man ducks as a waldo shoots out, puncturing a hole in a metal vat,
which EXPLODES.  He rolls under a flaming stream of napalm-like fluid.


A waldo grabs the SL 270 container; a third arm backhands Spider-Man,
knocking him through the air into a concrete wall.  Shaken, Spider-Man gets
to his feet, stumbles after Ock.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Well?  Had enough?


Ock uses the waldos to pull himself over the retaining wall.  Spider-Man
leaps onto Ock’s back, throws him in a head-lock.  Ock sputters, strikes
backward with his real fists, to no avail.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Aren’t we both too intellectual for this?


A deep, ugly roar echoes from Ock’s chest. Two waldos whip backward, grab
Spider-Man and fling him violently over the top of the wall--


EXT.  MUDDY STREET - NIGHT


AND ONTO THE ROOF OF THE PATROL CAR.  HE BOUNCES OFF AND SPLASHES INTO A
PUDDLE. PAINFULLY, HE ROLLS OVER, STRUGGLING TO HIS HANDS AND KNEES.  OUT
OF NOWHERE, A WALDO CLAW CLUTCHES AT HIS THROAT, SQUEEZING.  SPIDER-MAN
PRESSES THE WEB-SHOOTER TRIGGERS-- THEY SPURT BLOBS OF GOOP, THEN AIR, OUT
OF WEBBING.


Ock thrusts Spider-Man against the wall, rears back with another arm and
aims a deadly blow. Spider-Man jerks his head-- the metal fist misses by
inches, punching a crater in the concrete.  Ock laughs maniacally, prepares
for the final blow.


                            ROZ (O.S.)
                 Octavius!


Ock turns and sees Roz, getting out of his vintage Porsche.


                            ROZ
                 Please.


The wild violence drains from Ock’s face, replaced for a moment by sanity.
He looks at Rosomoff, then at the metal arms, then again at Roz, pitifully.
 With an anguished cry, he loosens the grip on the choking Spider-Man.  Ock
rushes to the Cadillac, drives off.  SIRENS wail in the distance as Roz
helps Spider-Man to his feet.


                            ROZ
                 I sent for  the police.  We can explain.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Explain that some jerk in a mask and costume fought a mad
                 scientist with four tentacles?


                            ROZ
                 Right.  Let’s go.


INT.  ROZ’S CAR - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN OPENS HIS WINDOW FOR AIR AS ROZ DRIVES THE BRIDGE TO MANHATTAN.


                            ROZ
                 You’re sure you’re all right.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (coughs)
                 Yeah, just a lung full of New Jersey.  Lucky you showed up
                 when you did.


                            ROZ
                 Logic.  Lot 49 is the closest stockpile of SL 270--
                       (looks at him)
                 I do feel foolish talking with a man dressed like a--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Imagine how I feel.


                            ROZ
                 Excuse me if I’m impertinent, but-- how did you become…
                 whatever it is you are?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 The usual.  Heredity and environment.  What’s the deal with
                 Doc Ock?


                            ROZ
                 He’ll try to finish his experiment.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 And blow up the universe just to prove he’s right?  Bit
                 egotistical, isn’t it?


                            ROZ
                 A messianic complex is nothing new to Octavius. In  his
                 universe, there’s only one mind-- his own.  It must be very
                 lonely.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Forgive me if I don’t feel too sympathetic right now.


They drive south to Lower Manhattan on West End Avenue in the rain.


                            ROZ
                 I listened to him talk of eternal truth and thought of the
                 Bhagavad Gita, the Indian holy book-- “I am become Shiva,
                 Death-- the destroyer of worlds.”  Octavius was…


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Bonkers.


                            ROZ
                 Loonytunes.  And yet…


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Just drop me off here.


EXT.  WATERFRONT DISTRICT - NIGHT


THE CAR PULLS OVER NEAR THE EERIE WHARVES UNDER THE ELEVATED WEST SIDE
DRIVE.  SPIDER-MAN GETS OUT AND LEANS IN THE WINDOW. THE RAIN HAS STOPPED.


                            ROZ
                 Do you… live around here?


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 No, but I’ve got this secret identity to worry about. I’ll
                 swing the rest of the way.


                            ROZ
                 I see.  Well, Octavius won’t get much further. They’ll
                 catch him and… put him away.  Sad.  He might very well have
                 the truth.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Phooey on that.


Roz drives off.  Spider-Man raises his arms to shoot a web-- it makes PHFFT
noise, still out of webbing.  He groans disgustedly, heads down a rain-
slicked street.


EXT.  NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN TRUDGES CROSS TOWN TOWARD HOME. QUICK IMAGES OF NIGHTTIME NEW
YORK:  WAREHOUSES; TENEMENTS; CHINATOWN; THE BOWERY. SPIDEY WALKS BY A
GROUP OF GANG KIDS, WHO LAUGH AND POINT.


He stops a robbery by tiredly flipping the mugger into a dumpster. He
avoids a police car by leaping and clinging to the side of a building.
Inside a window he sees a couple kissing passionately.  He looks away and
drops to the street.


EXT. PETER’S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT


SPIDER-MAN STANDS ON THE LANDING, SLAPS HIS THIGHS FOR HIS KEYS-- NOTHING.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (mutters)
                 I gotta get pockets.


He hops on the wall and climbs upward.  Near the roof, he hears the RUMBLE
of an MG engine and VOICES below.  Harry, Liz, Adele and Flash tumble out
of the tiny car and head to the front door.


                            FLASH
                 Aww-- we forgot the beer!


                            ADELE
                 I’m not sure this is a great idea.


                            HARRY
                       (ala Garbo)
                 Maybe he vants to be alone.


                            LIZ
                 Come on.  He needs friends now.


Groaning, Spider-Man crawls onto the roof, opens the skylight.


INT.  PETER’S HALLWAY - NIGHT


FLASH BRINGS UP THE REAR ON THE STAIRS. EVERYONE’S PUFFING FROM THE CLIMB.


                            FLASH
                 Is this worth it?  He’s so damned dull.  And I bet he
                 doesn’t have any beery treats.


Peter answers Liz’s knock.  In his bathrobe, his face bruised, he looks a
mess.


                            LIZ
                 Peter!  You poor baby, what happened?


INT. PETER’S APARTMENT - NIGHT


FLASH CLAPS PETER ON THE BACK, PUSHES PAST TO THE KITCHEN.  PETER WINCES
WHEN LIZ TOUCHES HIS BRUISE.  SHE SHAKES HER HEAD AND GOES TO THE BATHROOM
MEDICINE CHEST.


                            ADELE
                 What did happen to you?


                            PETER
                 It’s nothing.  Look--


                            HARRY
                 You get mugged or something?


                            PETER
                 Listen, I do appreciate your concern, but--


                            HARRY
                 I got you a present.


He pulls a colorful can from his jacket pocket-- Peter unscrews the lid and
spring-snakes fly out.  Peter looks at Harry tiredly.


                            HARRY
                       (lamely)
                 Thought it might cheer you up.


Flash closes the fridge and returns from the kitchen.


                            FLASH
                 Let’s go somewhere and get ya blotto.


                            ADELE
                 I’m sorry about your uncle…


                            FLASH
                 Guess Uncle Ben got his rice converted--


Flash yoks it up. Liz enters from the bathroom with cotton swabs and a
bottle of rubbing alcohol.


                            LIZ
                 Flash, get lost.


                            FLASH
                 Come on, laughter’s the best medicine!


Adele pushes him out the door.  Liz looks at Harry, who nods and follows
the others into the hallway.  Liz eases Peter down onto the mattress.
Flash tries to look back inside-- Adele closes the door.


Liz dabs Peter’s bruises.  His head’s on the pillow, her face is close to
his.  He’s totally exhausted.


                            PETER
                 I’m sorry about being a jerk this afternoon.


                            LIZ
                 Just shut up and close your eyes.  This’ll hurt.


Eyes shut, he hardly has the energy to wince as she dabs a cut on his
temple.


                            LIZ
                 May’s much better. She’ll be out soon.


                            PETER
                 Oh, God, I forgot to--


                            LIZ
                 Ssh.
                       (dabs him again)
                 I always thought she was a strong person.  She is-- but not
                 for the reasons I thought.


                            PETER
                       (half-asleep)
                 Strong…


                            LIZ
                 Her cleverness, that hard edge-- maybe they’re the weakest
                 part of her. The strong part is… what’s underneath.  The
                 part she was protecting.  There’s no reason to protect it…
                 I think she’s just finding that out now.


Peter’s features relax.  Liz puts down the bottle of alcohol.


                            LIZ
                 Peter?


                            PETER
                       (far away)
                 I’m here…


He’s out.  Liz sees this and smiles.


                            LIZ
                 So am I.


She kisses him tenderly on the lips, then curls beside him on the bed.


EXT. HIGH-TECH CYCLOTRON - NIGHT


BARBED-WIRE BARRICADES, SEARCHLIGHTS AND NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS SURROUND A
SPRAWLING, FUTURISTIC ACCELERATOR LAB.  AN OFFICER LEANS OUT OF A PATROL
CAR MARKED ‘SUFFOLK COUNTY POLICE.”


                            OFFICER
                 Is there an NYPD Lieutenant here?  It’s a Professor Rizzo,
                 or Rosta, or--


With an all-night beard, Marotta comes to the car, a Styrofoam cup of
coffee in hand, grabs the mike.


                            MAROTTA
                 Yeah, Roz.


                            ROZ (filter)
                 Any sign of our friend?


                            MAROTTA
                 Nope.  Maybe he skipped to Rio.  Feds got troops
                 surrounding every cyclotron on the continent.  Are you
                 absolutely positive that one at E.S.U. is kaput?


INT.  ROSOMOFF’S OFFICE - NIGHT


ROZ, FULLY DRESSED, SITS ON THE DESK.


                            ROZ
                 You didn’t see it, Lieutenant.  You’d need a half a dozen
                 men, precise equipment.  They’d have to rebuild the
                 transformer from scratch.  There were…


His voice trails off-- he realizes Ock’s plan.  Marotta’s voice frantically
squeaks through the phone.


                            MAROTTA (filter)
                 Roz? Rosomoff?  What is it?


                            ROZ
                 Precise equipment… such as waldos…


The lights flicker… and the phone RINGS madly, then EXPLODES.


EXT.  HIGH TECH CYCLOTRON - NIGHT


A HIGH-PITCHED WHINE ON THE RADIO.


                            MAROTTA
                 Roz? What’s goin’ on?


EXT.  NEW YORK SKYLINE - NIGHT


LIGHTED BUILDINGS FLASH DARK IN CLUSTERS.


INT.  PETER’S APARTMENT - NIGHT


PETER SLEEPS, LIZ, FULLY DRESSED, ASLEEP BESIDE HIM.  TRACK IN ON PETER; WE
HEAR THE OCK THROB GROWING LOUDER AND FASTER, CACOPHONY OF SCREAMS,
EXPLOSIONS, THE END OF THE WORLD.  SOUNDS STOP, PETER SITS BOLT UPRIGHT IN
BED.  HE EXTRICATES HIMSELF, GOES TO THE WINDOW.  THE LIGHTS IN HIS
APARTMENT GO OUT, AS DO THOSE THROUGHOUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD.


                            PETER
                 Doctor Octopus, I presume.


In the dim light, we see QUICK CUTS of Peter strapping on his web-shooters,
loading fresh cartridges, pulling on his gloves, pulling down the Spider-
Man mask.  Liz half-opens her eyes sleepily.


                            LIZ
                 Peter…?


Spider-Man leaps up to the skylight and slips out.


EXT.  NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT


SPIDER MAN’S FORM SWINGS AGAINST THE NIGHT SKY THROUGH THE BLACKED-OUT
CITY.


A baseball bat SMASHES a jewelry store window. Three LOOTERS fill their
arms with sparkling rings and necklaces.


The leader turns, and catches a red boot in the chin that knocks him end
over end.  Spider-Man’s fists quickly dispatch the other two.


Across the street, three more LOOTERS run out of a pawn shop, carrying an
assortment of radios, instruments, cameras, etc.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 There’s no time!


He takes a running jump, bounces on a car roof like a trampoline, and
tackles two of the looters.  On the ground, he shoots a jet of webbing at
the third looter’s back, then pulls hard and yanks him down.


People of all colors and social strata scramble down fire escapes and into
the streets to chase off the looters.  Spider-Man clambers up a wall and
swings off.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - NIGHT


MAKESHIFT REPAIRS-- PATCHES OF FRESH METAL PLATING, JERRY-RIGGED WIRING,
EVEN REPAIRS MADE WITH GAFFER’S TAPE.  ALL IS STILL STRANGELY WARPED.  THE
EXPERIMENT’S ALREADY GOING:  BRILLIANT LIGHT FROM THE FOCUSING CONE AGAIN
CONCENTRATES ON THE GRAM WEIGHT, WHICH SHIVERS.  OCK STANDS IN THE MIDDLE
OF IT ALL, WALDOS WORKING FEVERISHLY AT AN IMPROVISED CONTROL BOARD.  HE’S
LOST IN HIS MAD RAPTURE.


INT.  CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


STILL SHOWING THE EFFECTS OF THE ORIGINAL IMPLOSION:  THE GLASS WALL
MELTED, DIALS AND CONTROLS WARPED AND USELESS.  ROZ LEANS AGAINST THE
TWISTED GLASS, SHIELDING HIS EYES FROM THE GLARE WITHIN THE CHAMBER.


                            ROZ
                       (hoarsely)
                 My God, Otto, you have to hear me!  The world we know will
                 collapse!  Everything we have devoted our lives to-- all
                 patterns, all harmonies-- will be destroyed!


                            OCK
                 Truth.  Truth alone exists. Truth must be released…


                            ROZ
                 You have no right!  This is cosmic suicide!


In desperation, Roz climbs through the melted glass into the chamber,
grabbing a waldo and trying to pull it from a huge rheostat.  Ock, watching
the gram weight, pays no attention to Roz’s futile struggle.  The arm,
moving to another part of the room, swats Roz aside and knocks him to the
floor.


ON THE GRAM WEIGHT
The tiny cylinder rises very slowly from the scale, the THROB rises in
pitch.  Suddenly, the weight “falls upward,” accelerating toward the
ceiling as if dropped.


Spider-Man’s hand catches the gram weight.  He’s clinging to the ceiling.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Hey, Doc-- you dropped something.


Spider-Man leaps onto Octavius and kicks him in the chest, knocking him
backward, into a pile of acetylene tanks and torches.  Roz gets to his
feet.


                            ROZ
                 Spider-Man, be careful!  He’s quite mad.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 I’m not so happy myself.


Without warning, a waldo springs out and wallops Spider-Man in the head.
The blow sends him flying, knocks him up against the focusing cone.   He
falls on the floor in a heap-- unconscious.


The BLUE-WHITE BEAM focuses on the floor.  Roz runs for the cone and tries
to right it, but a waldo grabs him by the collar and flings him away.


Ock smiles and cranks up the power.  The PULSE ripples through the tiles,
sends them falling to the ceiling.  The cement floor beneath begins to
glow.


EXT.  NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT


SIRENS IN THE DISTANCE; RUNNING; SHADOWY FIGURES. THE BEAM OF A FLASHLIGHT
IN LIZ’S HAND CUTS THROUGH THE DARKNESS:  SHE, HARRY AND ADELE HURRY
THROUGH THE STREETS.


                            HARRY
                       (sleepily)
                 This is a great way to get killed.


                            ADELE
                 New York is a big place, Liz.


                            LIZ
                 He was hurt-- he might be delirious or something.  We have
                 to find--
                       (beat)
                 Listen!


She hears the faint THROB, runs up the street to locate it.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER -  NIGHT


LIGHT SPILLS FROM THE TORN-OPEN FRONT DOOR, THE ONLY ILLUMINATION IN THE
AREA.  THE PULSE SPREADS THROUGH THE SIDEWALK, THE CEMENT PAVING RIPPLES
AND THROBS.  LIZ RUNS TOWARD THE BUILDING-- ADELE GRABS HER.


                            ADELE
                 Uh, Liz, I don’t think--


Liz breaks away from Adele and dashes up the steps.  Adele hurries after
her-- a crevice opens as the building’s steps crumble.  Harry pulls Adele
away.


INT.  SCIENCE CENTER MAIN FLOOR - NIGHT


THE BUILDING CREAKS, HUNKS OF CEILING FALL DOWNWARD.  LIZ RUNS UPSTAIRS TO
A CORRIDOR WITH MANY DOORS.


                            LIZ
                 Peter!  Peter, where are you?!


A crack opens in the corridor’s floor beneath Liz.  She leaps out of the
way, twists open the knob of a door marked “Biology Lab,” gets in just as a
hole opens in the floor where she’d been standing.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - NIGHT


ADELE AND HARRY BACK AWAY AS THE STRUCTURE SHAKES AND RUMBLES, THE BRICK
WALLS SLOWLY SLIDING UPWARD, THE CONCRETE FOUNDATION RISING INTO VIEW.  THE
SIDEWALK BUCKLES, TREES UPROOT AND FALL OVER.


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - NIGHT


THE ROOM VIBRATES.  ROZ DRAGS THE UNCONSCIOUS SPIDER-MAN TOWARD THE CONTROL
ROOM.  THE PULSE ENVELOPS THE ENTIRE FLOOR, THE LIGHT CASTS EERIE SHADOWS
UPWARD ON OCK’S FACE.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - NIGHT


THE BUILDING PULLS FREE FROM THE GROUND.  ADELE, HARRY AND OTHERS IN THE
AREA TAKE COVER AS WATER MAINS BURST, SPEWING FOUNTAINS.


INT. BIOLOGY LAB - NIGHT


LIZ STEADIES HERSELF AS CHAIRS AND TABLES SLIDE FROM ONE END OF THE ROOM TO
THE OTHER. A CAGEFUL OF WHITE MICE TUMBLES TO THE FLOOR AND SNAPS OPEN, THE
MICE SCURRY IN PANIC.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - NIGHT


HEAVY ELECTRICAL CABLES STRETCH UPWARD TO THE RISING BUILDING, THEN SNAP IN
SHOWERS OF SPARKS.  THE SCIENCE CENTER RISES FURTHER, NOW AIRBORNE-- THE
ELECTRICAL CABLES POINT UPWARD, SHOOTING ARCS OF POWER DIRECTLY AT THE
BUILDING.


ANGLE UP
as the Science Center hovers above the surrounding buildings like a brick
spaceship.


INT. BIOLOGY LAB - NIGHT


LIZ CLUTCHES A WINDOW SILL, LOOKING OUT-- AND DOWN.


HER POV-- RISING
The E.S.U. neighborhood recedes, hundreds of feet below.  Dawn begins to
show in the distance, silhouetting Manhattan.


EXT. SUBSTATIONS - DAWN


IN RAPID SUCCESSION, POWER STATIONS AROUND THE CITY EXPLODE AND SHOOT
RIVERS OF ELECTRICITY TOWARD THE BUILDING ASCENDING IN THE DISTANCE.


EXT.  NEW YORK SKYLINE - DAWN


TWISTING, ROPE-LIKE BEAMS CRACK THROUGH THE SKY, RIPPING HOLES THROUGH
SKYSCRAPERS IN THEIR PATH.


The bolts of power shoot at the concrete foundation--


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAWN


--AND RIP GAPING HOLES THROUGH THE WALLS AND FLOOR, DIRECTLY TO THE WHINING
CYCLOTRON TRANSFORMER, WHICH PULSES AND THROBS.  CURLING ARCS OF POWER
DANCE CRAZILY AROUND OCK. HE WATCHES IN ECSTASY, HIS WALDOS TWITCH AND CURL
IN PLEASURE.


INT. CONTROL ROOM - DAWN


THE TWISTED BANKS OF ELECTRONICS BURST. ROZ SHAKES SPIDER-MAN.


                            ROZ
                 Get up!  The second phase!


EXT.  NEW YORK- DAY


AN ENERGY CYCLONE ERUPTS AND WHIRLS BENEATH THE RISING STRUCTURE, SUCKING
OBJECTS FROM THE STREET:  TINE CANS-- BUS BENCHES-- TREES-- NEWSSTANDS--
PARKED CARS.  ALL SWIRL IN THE INVERTED FUNNEL GROWING BENEATH THE
BUILDING.


INT. EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


SPIDER-MAN LEAPS AROUND THE ENERGY STREAMS TO CATCH OCK’S ATTENTION.
INTENSELY ABSORBED IN THE EXPERIMENT’S PROGRESS, HE REACTS SLOWLY.  HIS
WALDOS PROBE TOWARD SPIDER-MAN, WHO DANCES AND WHIRLS AWAY FROM THEIR
GRASP.


Roz makes his way toward Ock’s control board.


Spider-Man hurls an acetylene tank at Ock, who deflects it-- an energy bolt
hits it and the tank EXPLODES, tearing a door-sized hole in the floor
behind Spider-Man.  Roz, at the controls, nods to Spider-Man.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Come and get me, squid-breath


                            OCK
                 You annoy me!


Ock lunges for him, but Spider-Man jumps down through the hole in the
floor.  Ock falls after him.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


LOOKING UP FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE BUILDING: ARCS OF ENERGY CRACKLE THROUGH
THE CLOUD COVER AND SHOOT INTO THE BASEMENT.  FALLING, OCK THRUSTS A STEEL
TENTACLE THROUGH THE CONCRETE AS AN ANCHOR, AND VAULTS ARM OVER ARM AFTER
SPIDER-MAN.


Spider-Man scrambles around the edge of the foundation--


--and onto the front facade.  A waldo clamps around his ankle and tugs
violently.  Spider-Man resists, pulls against it, but a second waldo
clutches his arm and peels him completely off the wall.


The two waldos shake and whip him around like a rag doll.


SPIDER-MAN’S POV:
The sun and the horizon swirl crazily, Manhattan far below through a gap in
the clouds.


Ock smiles.  The waldos release Spider-Man-- he falls-- but immediately
shoots a jet of webbing onto a metal tentacle.  The sudden weight causes
Ock to waver precariously.  Spider-Man shoots another web and swings up to
the front facade.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


ROZ, IN A SWEAT, THROWS THE RHEOSTAT-- AN EAR-SPLITTING SCREECH--


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


SEVERAL OF THE ENERGY STREAMS DISSIPATE.  THE BUILDING HALTS ITS ASCENT,
THEN LURCHES.  IS FACADE TILTS TOWARD THE HORIZONTAL.  OCK’S ARMS THRUST
INTO BRICK TO HOLD ON.  SPIDER-MAN CLINGS FLAT AGAINST A GLASS DOORWAY.
THE HORIZON REELS DRUNKENLY AROUND THEM.  SPIDER-MAN HANGS ON BY HIS
FINGERTIPS; WALDO-FISTS SLAM INTO HIS HANDS, SHATTERING THE GLASS.


INT.  BIOLOGY LAB - DAY


LIZ HURTLES ACROSS THE SLANTED ROOM, FURNITURE AND LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
CRASH TOWARD HER AS SHE CRAWLS UP THE FLOOR TOWARD A WALL OF WINDOWS.  A
CASE OF FORMALDEHYDE-FILLED BOTTLES SMASHES INCHES FROM HER HEAD, SPILLING
GRISLY PRESERVED SPECIMENS.  SHE SUPPRESSES A SCREAM, KEEPING HER WITS
ABOUT HER.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER -DAY


THE BUILDING HOVERS AND PITCHES UNSTABELY IN MID-AIR.


Spidey rips loose a drainpipe to defend himself against Ock’s arms:  a
bizarre sword duel ensues, a ten-foot pipe vs. four metal tentacles.


The building pitches violently in the opposite direction.


INT.  BIOLOGY LAB - DAY


EVERYTHING THAT’S NOT TIED DOWN FALLS ACROSS THE ROOM AND SMASHES PAST LIZ
THROUGH THE WINDOWS, WHICH NOW FACE DOWN ON NEW YORK-- A MILE BELOW.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER -DAY


THE BUILDING SPINS, DEBRIS SPILLS OUT THE WINDOW.


Ock lands a hard blow to Spider-Man’s jaw. Stunned, Spidey hugs the wall.


Ock claws his way across the brick surface to finish him off.


Behind Ock, Liz tumbles through an open window, clutching at Venetian
blinds.  She releases a pent-up SCREAM of terror, dangling a mile above
ground.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Liz!


He seizes the offensive, swings at Ock with the drainpipe.


The building reels, vertical walls nearly upright.


Spidey heaves the drainpipe like a javelin, hitting Ock in the belly.  The
pipe hurtles downward.  Double-jets of webbing shoot out to cover Ock’s
livid face.


Spider-Man swings around Ock toward Liz, shoots webbing to secure her to
the face of the building.


Spider-Man dodges and ducks the flailing waldos, weaving a web to bind them
to the wall.  More and more web-fluid-- the net draws tighter.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 You could use a nice, long rest.


At last near enough to Ock’s body, Spidey clips him with a quick blow--
he’s out.  Spider-Man scrambles to Liz and pulls her inside.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


ROZ RUNS FROM ONE BANK OF CONTROLS TO ANOTHER.  SPIDER-MAN AND LIZ ENTER
FROM THE CONTROL ROOM.


                            ROZ
                 What’s she doing here?


                            LIZ
                 This building is flying.  I’m in a flying building…


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Professor, you ever fly one of these things before?


                            ROZ
                 Sure, in the war.  Pull those cables--


Spider-Man runs across to the transformer, now glowing less brightly.  He
pulls a thick electrical cable-- the cyclotron GROANS, the PULSE diminishes
further.  Spider-Man grabs another cable.


                            ROZ
                 One at a time!  We’ll drop like a bomb!


Spider-Man lets go as if it were red-hot.


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER -- DAY


SOME ENERGY STREAMS SPUTTER INTO NOTHINGNESS.  THE BUILDING GENTLY DESCENDS
TOWARD THE CLOUDS BELOW.


INT.  EXPERIMENTAL CHAMBER - DAY


LIZ WATCHES AS SPIDER-MAN AND ROZ WORK TOGETHER.


                            LIZ
                 I’m in a goddamn flying building…


The PULSE in the floor “unspreads” toward the focusing cone.


Liz’s earrings flutter-- the fly off her ears, sailing to the curved wall
of the cyclotron.  Other metal objects-- pliers, a welder’s torch, etc.--
join them there.


                            ROZ
                 Magnetism-- phase one.  We’re returning to normal.


Ock’s waldos ERUPT through the floor.  Seething, he pulls himself into the
room, loose strands of webbing hanging from his face and arms.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                       (exasperated)
                 Oh, come on!


All four waldos surge out at Spider-Man.  He barely leaps away, a waldo
lashes after him and pulls loose another electrical cable--


the room pitches


Liz and Roz fall to the floor, she pulls Roz away from the glow.


Spider-Man leaps to the ceiling above the cyclotron.  Ock strikes out-- the
magnetism sucks an arm against the accelerator tube and holds it fast.


The Pulse shrinks further to an area below the focusing cone.


Ock’s remaining arms strike madly at Spider-Man, Roz, everything.


A waldo crosses the beam of power from the focusing cone-- concentric rings
of energy shoot down the length of the arm-- the waldo BURSTS APART,
scattering wire and metal.


Ock YOWLS in pain, a two-foot remnant of a waldo flops limply at his torso.


Spider-Man leaps to the ceiling above the focusing cone.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Up here, Docky Ocky!


                            ROZ
                       (desperately)
                 No, no!  Not there!


Ock’s remaining two waldo arms thrust madly at Spider-Man-- he springs
away.


The waldos SMASH the cone.


Unearthly SOUNDS.


The fibrous BLUE WHITE BEAM envelops Doc Ock’s entire body.


A dark, completely alien slit opens in space where the focusing cone had
been.


The widening gap draws Ock into its weird Beyond. He reaches toward it with
his human hands.


Liz & Spider-Man struggle to resist the gap’s pull.  Roz watches in horror
as--


Ock’s body warps, twists inside itself.  He HOWLS-- agony, pleasure,
enlightenment, death.


The gap implodes Doc Ock’s body and…


disappears, closing and sucking the last of the energy and PULSE into it.


Eerie silence, except for the growing WHISTLE of air.


                            ROZ
                       (hushed)
                 He found his truth.


                            LIZ
                 We’re falling…


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Okay, I blew it-- let’s move!


EXT. SCIENCE CENTER- DAY


THE ENERGY HAS COMPLETELY DISAPPEARED. THE BUILDING PLUMMETS INTO THE
CLOUDS.


INT. SCIENCE CENTER  HALLWAY - DAY


SPIDER-MAN AND ROZ HELP LIZ TOWARD THE STAIRCASE.  THE WIND WHISTLES LOUDER
AS GRAVITY ACCELERATES THE PLUNGE.


EXT.  SKYLINE - DAY


THE SCIENCE CENTER FALLS OUT OF THE CLOUDS TOWARD CENTRAL PARK.


INT.  STAIRCASE - DAY


PITCHING AND ROLLING, SPIDER-MAN, ROZ AND LIZ MOVE WEIGHTLESSLY UP TO THE
EMERGENCY EXIT.


EXT.  SCIENCE CENTER - DAY


THE DOOR SWINGS OPEN IN THE HURRICANE WIND.  FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND OTHER
OBJECTS ARE SUCKED PAST THE TRIO, THEY LEAP AWAY FROM THE BUILDING--


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 Hold tight, kids!


EXT.  CENTRAL PARK - DAY


CENTRAL PARK ACCELERATES TOWARD THEM AS THEY PLUNGE TO EARTH.


The Science Center disintegrates on impact with Central Park Lake.


EXT.  SKY - DAY


FALLING, WITH LIZ HANGING ONTO HIS NECK, ROZ UNDER ONE ARM, SPIDER-MAN
SHOOTS WEBBING DOWNWARD--


EXT.  CLEOPATRA’S NEEDLE - DAY


TO THE TOP OF THE OBELISK--


and swings gracefully down in a spiral around the monument.


He touches ground, sets Roz and Liz on their feet.  They look around  them:


EXT.  CENTRAL PARK - DAY


A HAILSTORM OF DEBRIS-- PAPERS, BOOKS, BOTTLES, BRICKS.  THE LAKE’S SURFACE
CHURNS AND CALMS.


EXT.  CLEOPATRA’S NEEDLE - DAY


THE TRIO STANDS FOR A MOMENT, STUNNED.  LIZ’S KNEES BUCKLE AS SHE FAINTS.
SPIDER-MAN CATCHES HER.


                            SPIDER-MAN
                 I can handle it.


He hefts her into his arms and walks off into the gathering crowd.


INT.  LECTURE HALL CORRIDOR - DAY


NORB AND CHIP LEANS AGAINST THE WALL, HANGING OUT. THEY READ A COPY OF THE
TIMES.  THE BOLD HEADLINE:  “SCIENTISTS EXPLAIN TORNADO/
EARTHQUAKE/ELECTRICAL STORM.”  FLASH SWAGGERS UP, SWACKS THEIR TIMES WITH A
COPY OF THE BUGLE.


                            FLASH
                 Use that to wrap fish.  I got the real story.


He shows them the tacky Bugle headline:  “SPIDER-MAN SAVES UNIVERSE.”  Chip
and Norb break up laughing.  Students pour out of a classroom behind them.


                            FLASH
                 Hey!  This is the truth!  Look, Doc Ock had this, uh,
                 experiment thing, and the Science Center crashed into
                 Central Park, and--


He spots Peter and Harry, holds up the Bugle.


                            FLASH
                 Parker, Osborn--true, am I right?


                            PETER
                       (bemused)
                 Oh, of course.


                            HARRY
                 I was there.


                            FLASH
                 See?


                            HARRY
                       (wild-eyed)
                 Or was it all a dream?


Peter and Harry laugh and head out the door.


EXT.  LECTURE HALL - DAY


THEY WALK OUT AND PAST THE BOARDED-OFF PIT THAT WAS THE SCIENCE CENTER.


                            HARRY
                 Oh, I need your notes from the classes I missed.


                            PETER
                 Well, I’ve missed a lot of classes myself….


                            HARRY
                 Oh. Well, hang in there, amigo.


He crosses away.  Roz catches up to Peter from the lecture hall.


                            ROZ
                 Peter-- I’m so very proud of you.  I must apologize for
                 doubting that you could do it.


Peter eyes him, wondering what he knows.  Roz eyes him back.


                            ROZ
                 The paper, my boy.  A solid B-plus.


                            PETER
                 Oh. Yeah.  Thanks.


                            ROZ
                 If you really apply yourself, you’ll get an A next time.


Roz smiles wisely.  Peter watches him walk off.


                            PETER
                 Next time…


The idea of doing it all again makes Peter whistle lowly.  He sees someone
across the street.


EXT.  WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK - DAY


SMILING, PETER RUNS UP TO LIZ.


                            PETER
                 Hello, Liz.


                            LIZ
                 Hello.  So very boring.  Peter Parker, how do you feel
                 about me this morning?


                            PETER
                 I… I like you.  A lot.


                            LIZ
                 Hm.  Well, I like you, too.  I like your aunt.  I like your
                 shoelaces.  I like--


He holds a fingertip to her lips.


                            PETER
                 Hold it.  Can we stop being clever, just for a moment?


                            LIZ
                 Why?


He kisses her.  She looks at him bittersweetly.


                            LIZ
                 This may be the end of a beautiful friendship, you know.


                            PETER
                 Nah.


She kisses him back.  They walk off into the park, holding hands…. and we


FADE OUT.




