

                                  HALL8WEEN


SCREEN IS BLACK

OVER WHICH WE HEAR A SLOW, RHYTHMIC CLACK-CLACK-CLACK, HARD AND INSISTENT
AS THE BEAT OF A PETRIFIED HEART.  AND SUDDENLY FLUORESCENT LIGHT INVADES
OUR SPACE, HARSH AND UGLY, AND WE FIND OURSELVES IN A FEATURELESS WHITE
CORRIDOR THAT SEEMS TO STRETCH TO INFINITY.  SOFT AND MUFFLED, AS IF COMING
FROM SOME HIDDEN DIMENSION, WE HEAR CRAZED LAUGHTER, PATHETIC WHIMPERING,
WILD CANINE YELPING: THE SOUNDS OF MADNESS EMANATING FROM THE WALLS...THEN
FOOTSTEPS.

                              FEMALE VOICE (OVER)
                Sometimes, when I'm up here late at night, I think of the
                tunnel, you know, the one you're supposed to see when you
                die?  Only there's a door at the far end, and on the
                other side is either heaven or hell.
                        (a beat)
                In my mind...it's this door.

ANGLE ON A DOOR

AT THE FAR END OF THE CORRIDOR.  THERE'S A WINDOW IN IT.

                              FEMALE VOICE #2 (OVER)
                Um.  Dr. Howard said five milligrams Zyprexa twice a day.
                Or was that Dr. Fein?

                              FEMALE VOICE #1 (OVER)
                Howard.  Fein's the one with the curly hair.

                              FEMALE VOICE #2 (OVER)
                Right.  Why's she here?

Int. SaNITARIUM - night


Two nurses walk down the hall, pushing a medicine cart, their uniforms as
hard white as the fluorescence.  The first voice belongs to HEAD NURSE
WELLES, the other to NURSE PHILLIPS, a young newcomer to the facility.  The
CLACKING sound, everpresent, grows LOUDER.

                              NURSE WELLES
                Extreme dissociative disorder.  Hasn't said a word in two
                years.  At least to anyone you or I can see.

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                Why's she in lockdown?

The older woman looks at the younger one.

                              NURSE WELLES
                You've never heard of Laurie Strode?

The novice shakes her head.

                              NURSE WELLES
                The Halloween murders?  Michael Myers?

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                I...just moved here from Wisconsin.

                              NURSE WELLES
                She decapitated a man.

                                                     FLASH TO:

LAURIE STRODE


SWINGING a fire ax in one terrible vicious arc -- BEHEADING the man trapped
between the tree and the EMS van --

                                                     BACK TO:

INT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT


as the two nurses continue down the corridor.

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                My God.  Decapitated?

                                                     FLASH TO:

THE COUNTRYSIDE


as POLICE cover the area for evidence while in the background we see the
headless body being removed.  Suddenly we hear:

                              VOICE (O.S.)
                Over here!

ANGLE ON TWO COPS

STANDING OVER THE SEVERED HEAD, WHICH STILL WEARS THE WHITE MASK.  ONE OF
THEM REACHES DOWN AND PULLS THE MASK OFF.

                              COP
                        (gagging)
                Oh, no.  Oh, God....

                              NURSE PHILLIPS (V.o.)
                Why'd she do it?

                                                     BACK TO:

INT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT


as the two nurses approach the door at the end of the hall.

                              NURSE WELLES
                I don't know, does insanity run
                in families?  Are people born evil or can they be made that
                way?

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                Um, we didn't really study that
                in --

                              NURSE WELLES
                I guess those are philosophical questions, not psychiatric
                ones, right?

They stop at the door.  A small square of reinforced glass looks into the
room.

POV INSIDE ROOM

WHERE WE SEE THE PERFECTLY-ARRANGED ITEMS, AS IF SOME ATTEMPT HAS BEEN MADE
TO FIND ORDER IN A RANDOM UNIVERSE.  IT RESEMBLES A TEENAGE GIRL'S ROOM,
CIRCA LATE SEVENTIES, A HAVEN FOR SOMEONE SURROUNDING HERSELF WITH THE
ARTIFACTS OF A GENTLER PAST.

WE HEAR THE CLACK-CLACK-CLACK...AND MOVE SLOWLY TO FIND

LAURIE STRODE

SITTING IN A STRAIGHT-BACKED CHAIR, TILTING IT BACK AND FORTH AS IF IT WERE
A ROCKING CHAIR.  IT RISES UP, THEN CLACKS BACK TO THE TILE FLOOR, A
METRONOME COUNTING DOWN THE END OF TIME.

                                                     FLASH TO:

INT. THE HILLCREST ACADEMY - NIGHT


Michael Myers is lying on the floor.  We hear SIRENS in the distance...the
sound of the door OPENING...FOOTSTEPS.

TWO POLICE OFFICERS

ARE THE FIRST ON THE SCENE.  THEY ENTER CAUTIOUSLY, MOVING SLOWLY WITH GUNS
DRAWN.  THEY NOTICE THE BODY LYING NEARBY.

                              OFFICER
                See if he's still breathing.  I'll secure the floor.

The other cop steps over, looks at the body, the blood.

                              OFFICER #2
                No way, man.  This guy is chum.

He turns back to his partner, who's disappeared further inside.

AND MICHAEL MYERS RISES TO A SIT BEHIND HIM....

                                                     BACK TO:

LAURIE SITTING


in her chair, rocking gently.  Eyes open but unseeing.

                                                     FLASH TO:

INT. THE HILLCREST ACADEMY - NIGHT


as Michael GRABS the cop from behind, bringing him down quickly, wrapping
one big hand around the man's throat and CRUSHING his windpipe -- then
SMASHING his head into the floor, knocking him senseless.  He quickly
starts removing the unconscious man's police uniform.

                                                     BACK TO:

INT. THE SANITARIUM ROOM - NIGHT


where we are MOVING SLOWLY into Laurie's EYES....

                                                     FLASH TO:

INT. THE HILLCREST ACADEMY - NIGHT


The first cop returns to the room just in time to see a SHAPE slipping out
through a side door.  It is wearing a police uniform.  It moves out into
the night and is gone.

                              OFFICER #1
                        (calling out)
                Ron?  Where the hell you going?

Then he looks back down at the body on the floor, wearing the bloody
jumpsuit, the white mask.

                                                     BACK TO:

LAURIE'S EYES


as they become giant mirrors of a haunted soul.

                                                     FLASH TO:

INT. EMS TRUCK - NIGHT


As Laurie drives the commandeered vehicle as the man in the white mask
fights his way out of the body bag behind her --

                                                     FLASH TO:

LAURIE SLAMMING


the BRAKES as the body is PROPELLED through the windshield --

                                                     FLASH TO:

THE EMS VAN


CRASHING down the hill and PINNING the man against the tree --

                                                     FLASH TO:

THE FIRE AX


in Laurie's hands SWINGING in one unmerciful arc --

                                                     FLASH TO:

THE SEVERED HEAD


lying on the ground, as a hand reaches to pull off the white mask...and we
see the face of the police officer revealed.

                                                     BACK TO:

LAURIE'S EYES


as we are sucked into the enormous black pupils until we suddenly REVERSE
ourselves and are LOOKING

THROUGH LAURIE'S EYES

AND OUT THE WINDOW OF THE SANITARIUM AND INTO THE WOODS SURROUNDING THE
FACILITY -- WHERE WE GET JUST THE FAINTEST GLIMPSE OF A DARK SHAPE, WHITE
FACE, MOVING, MOVING --

THEN WE HEAR THE DOOR OPENING AND THE TWO NURSES ENTERING.  THEY MOVE
AROUND IN FRONT OF US, WHEELING THE MEDICINE CART ALONGSIDE THE CHAIR.  WE
NOTICE THE DIFFERENT BOTTLES OF MEDICINE, SEVERAL HYPODERMIC SYRINGES.

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                Does anyone come by to visit her?

                              Nurse welles
                Her son used to, but then he just stopped.

WIDER ANGLE

AS NURSE WELLES GENTLY PLACES A PILL ON LAURIE'S TONGUE, THEN WASHES IT
DOWN WITH A PAPER CUP OF WATER.  SHE STRAIGHTENS.

BUT SUDDENLY LAURIE'S BODY STARTS TO CONVULSE VIOLENTLY, KNOCKING OVER THE
MEDICINE TRAY.  HER CHAIR TOPPLES TO THE FLOOR BESIDE THE SPILLED MEDICINE
BOTTLES AND SYRINGES.

THE TWO NURSES STRUGGLE TO GET HER CALM AGAIN, FINALLY RIGHTING THE CHAIR.
LAURIE SEEMS OVER IT.  NURSE PHILLIPS BENDS TO GATHER UP THE MEDICATIONS.

                              NURSE PHILLIPS
                Jesus.  Has she ever done that before?

                              Nurse wELLES
                Not on my watch.  I'll talk to Dr. Howard in the morning
                about upping her meds.

And Laurie watches through her vacant eyes as the two nurses leave the
room, locking the door behind them.

BUT SHE IS CONCEALING SOMETHING IN HER HAND....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT


The MAIN FLOOR, where a bored night-duty staffer, FRANKLIN MUNROE, is
sitting at the security desk by a bank of MONITORS when he hears FOOTSTEPS.
 He gets up, moves to the hallway.

FOLLOW FRANKLIN

AROUND A CORNER.  HE STOPS.

POV DOWN THE HALL

HE SEES NOTHING.  IT'S SILENT AGAIN.

ANGLE ON FRANKLIN

AS HE STARTS TO TURN BACK -- WHEN SUDDENLY A SHAPE COMES OUT OF THE
DARKNESS OF A DOORWAY.  FRANKLIN JUMPS BACK, ALMOST SLAMMING INTO A WALL,
CATCHING HIS BREATH.

                              FRANKLIN
                Jesus Christ, Harold!  You trying to give me a heart attack?

The figure moves into the half-light and we see it's one of the patients,
walking with the stiff movements of neurological disorder.  He's wearing a
bright red-and-white clown mask.

                              FRANKLIN
                How the hell you get out this time?

Franklin takes the man's arm and walks him down the hall.

                              FRANKLIN
                Who you supposed to be today?
                        (nodding at the mask)
                Oh, yeah, I get it.  Gacy, right?

                              HAROLD
                        (savant monotone)
                John Wayne Gacy.  Born in Chicago, Illinois on March 17,
                1942.  Killed thirty-three people and buried them under his
                house.  Executed on May 14, 1994.

His voice trails off as they disappear down the hall.

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT


We find another staffer, WILLIE HAINES, sneaking a smoke just inside the
facility's gates.  He watches the smoke curl lazily in the night air.  Then
something CRUNCHES in the bushes just beyond the steel fence.  Willie turns
and looks.

POV INTO WOODS

BORDERING THE WELL-TENDED GROUNDS.  IT'S DARK AND QUIET.

ANGLE ON WILLIE

AS HE TURNS AWAY AND TAKES A DEEP DRAG OF HIS CIGARETTE.  THEN WE HEAR THE
CRACK OF A BRANCH.  WILLIE SNUFFS OUT HIS CIGARETTE AND GOES OVER TO THE
GATE AND OPENS IT.  HE STEPS OUTSIDE THE SANITARIUM GROUNDS.  HE PULLS HIS
FLASHLIGHT FROM HIS BELT AND SURVEYS THE NEAR WOODS.  SUDDENLY THERE'S A
SOUND, AND HIS FLASHLIGHT BEAM SWINGS UP TO



ANGLE ON FIGURE

STANDING THERE IN THE DARK, JUST IN FRONT OF THE TREES. THE FLASHLIGHT BEAM
MOVES UP THE FIGURE...TO THE DARK JUMPSUIT...THE WHITE MASK.

ANGLE ON WILLIE

LOOKING AT THE FIGURE STANDING THERE.  HE SHAKES HIS HEAD.

                              WILLIE
                Damn, Harold, you like to scare the shit out of me.  How
                many times I tell you I'm the one gets stepped on every time
                you get out?

He turns toward the gate, then back to the figure in the mask.

                              WILLIE
                Well?  Come on.

And the figure follows him onto the sanitarium grounds.

                              WILLIE
                        (looking at the mask)
                Who you supposed to be today?  Hmm.  White mask, white
                mask....Don't think I know that one.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. SANITARIUM - NIGHT


Franklin Munroe looks up as Willie enters with the other man.

                              FRANKLIN
                God damn.  He get out again?







                              WILLIE
                Don't know how he does that shit.
                        (to figure)
                You stay right the fuck there.

Willie sidles over to the security desk, looks at Franklin.

                              WILLIE
                We really got to write this up?

                              FRANKLIN
                You like your job?

But Willie isn't paying attention.  He is looking at

THE SECURITY MONITORS

WHICH SHOW THE DIFFERENT FLOORS OF THE FACILITY.  AND ON ONE OF THEM WE SEE
HAROLD WANDERING AROUND IN HIS CLOWN MASK....

ANGLE ON

FRANKLIN LOOKING AT THE MONITOR, THEN BACK AT WILLIE, THEN OVER AT THE HALL
WHERE THE FIGURE WAS STANDING -- BUT HE'S NO LONGER THERE.

                              FRANKLIN
                Shit!

And both men are up and moving.

                              FRANKLIN
                Check outside, I've got the floors.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT


The TOP FLOOR.  A dark shape, in silhouette, MOVES down the white corridor
as if following some sense only he possesses.

POV DOWN HALL

WHERE WE SEE THE SINGLE DOOR...AND WE BEGIN TO HEAR THE STEADY RHYTHMIC
CLACK-CLACK-CLACK FROM JUST BEYOND IT.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. ANOTHER FLOOR- NIGHT


We find Franklin running down the hallway till reaching one of the doors
and quickly OPENING it -- and INSIDE we find Harold, now in a Ted Bundy
mask, sitting in bed with a Detective magazine.  The walls are covered with
novelty masks of infamous serial killers.  He looks at Franklin and blinks.

                              HAROLD
                Ted Bundy, born November 24, 19 --

But Franklin is already out the door and moving down the hall.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. TOP FLOOR - NIGHT


as Michael approaches the door at the end of the hall with utter
unstoppable determination.  The CLACKING gets louder.

POV THROUGH THE WINDOW

LOOKING INTO LAURIE'S ROOM.  LAURIE IS SITTING IN HER CHAIR, ROCKING BACK
AND FORTH.  SUDDENLY WE MOVE

THROUGH THE GLASS

TO SEE WHAT'S ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WINDOW AS MICHAEL'S FACE STARES BACK
AT US FROM JUST OUTSIDE THE DOOR.

ANGLE ON

BROTHER AND SISTER STARING AT EACH OTHER FOR ONE INTERMINABLE INSTANT --
THEN MICHAEL THRUSTS HIS BODY INTO THE DOOR.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT


Franklin reaches floor after floor, pokes his head into the hall, sees
nothing, then ducks back in, continues the search.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. TOP FLOOR - NIGHT


Michael POUNDS at Laurie's door with desperate animal ferocity, until one
of the hinges BURSTS free of its housing.  He is about to hit the door
again when he notices something:

HIS POV

THROUGH THE LITTLE WINDOW -- AND THE ROOM APPEARS EMPTY.

ANGLE ON MICHAEL

AS HE GIVES ONE LAST MIGHTY THRUST OF HIS SHOULDERS AND THE DOOR BURSTS
OPEN --

INT. LAURIE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS


Michael charging blindly inside --

AS LAURIE LUNGES

AT HIM FROM THE SIDE, A HYPODERMIC SYRINGE RAISED HIGH IN HER HAND -- AND
SHE PLUNGES IT INTO MICHAEL'S NECK AND SQUEEZES THE AIR INSIDE HIM.

HE DROPS TO HIS KNEES AS THE EMBOLISM HITS HIM.  SHE STARES INTO HIS EYES
AS HIS BODY CONVULSES.

                              LAURIE
                Did you really think I wouldn't be waiting for you?

He reaches out to grab her but she runs through the door.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS


Laurie running down the hall as Michael staggers to his feet, starts coming
after her in his methodical gait.

INT STAIRWELL - FOLLOWING


Laurie ducks inside, barrels up the flight of the stairs and through the
door to the roof, setting off the ALARM.

EXT. ROOF - CONTINUOUS


Laurie runs across the roof, turns to looks back at

THE DOOR

 -- AS MICHAEL COMES OUT AFTER HER.  HE'S IN NO HURRY:  THERE'S NOWHERE FOR
HER TO GO.

ANGLE ON LAURIE

AS SHE TURNS TO FACE HIM, UNAFRAID.

                              LAURIE
                Just you and me, right?  Isn't that the way it needs to be?



She takes a step backward.  Then another.

HE MOVES FORWARD SLOWLY, THEN HESITATES.

                              LAURIE
                        (continuing)
                What's the matter, just hate to see it end?

They look at each other across the roof.

                              LAURIE
                        (continuing)
                You tried to turn me into you, but you failed.  And you'll
                never find my son.  Never.

He just stares at her through empty eyes.

                              LAURIE
                        (continuing)
                You can kill me, but you can't take my soul -- it's not mine
                to give.

She takes another step backward.

ANGLE TO SEE

SHE IS STANDING ALMOST AT THE VERY EDGE OF THE ROOF.

ANGLE ON MICHAEL

AS HIS HESITATION LEAVES HIM.  HE STRIDES PURPOSEFULLY FORWARD UNTIL THEY
ARE STANDING ONLY A FEW FEET APART.

HE HAS A KNIFE IN HIS HAND.  SHE LOOKS AT IT, AT HIM.

                              LAURIE
                        (barely a whisper)
                I'm not afraid to die...

He looks into her eyes with a weird curiosity.

                              LAURIE
                        (continuing)
                ...and I'm not afraid of you.

And he THRUSTS the knife up into her stomach --

BUT SHE CLASPS BOTH HANDS AROUND HIS WRIST IN AN IRON GRIP --

                              LAURIE
                Come with me, Michael....

And she steps backward and OVER the edge of the roof, PULLING Michael,
who's still gripping the knife, over with her....

ANGLE ON THEM

AS MICHAEL CATCHES THE EDGE OF THE ROOF WITH ONE HAND, HIS OTHER STILL
GRIPPING THE KNIFE IMBEDDED IN HER BELLY AS SHE HOLDS ONTO HIS WRIST,
TRYING TO PULL HIM DOWN WITH HER.

CLOSER ON THEM

AS ONCE AGAIN, AND FOR THE LAST TIME, THEIR EYES MEET, THIS TIME ONLY
INCHES SEPARATING THEM --

HE LETS GO OF THE KNIFE --

AND LAURIE FALLS, FREE OF HIM FOREVER --

THROUGH MICHAEL'S EYES

WE SEE HER BODY HIT THE DARK ROCKY HILLSIDE FAR BELOW.

ANGLE ON MICHAEL

AS HE SLOWLY PULLS HIMSELF BACK UP ONTO THE ROOF.

HE STARES DOWN INTO THE UNFATHOMABLE DEPTHS AND

SUDDENLY HIS IMAGE

SEEMS TO SHIMMER...THEN PIXILATES INTO A

VIDEO IMAGE

OF MICHAEL MYERS ON A TV MONITOR -- A GRAPHIC OF A WEB PAGE.

                              VOICE (OVER)
                My guest tonight is Internet entrepreneur Freddie Harris,
                whose latest venture seems to have captured the imagination
                of Net surfers everywhere.

int. newsroom studio - nIGHT


where an INTERVIEW is ON THE AIR.  Host BARRY FISHER sits across a desk
from tonight's guest, FREDDIE HARRIS.

                              FREDDIE
                Well, Barry, to succeed you have to keep your finger on the
                pulse of America.  The Net is real, it's immediate.
                Anything can happen -- and we hope it does.

                              BARRY
                To those viewers who may not know, tomorrow night,
                Halloween, live on the Internet, five college students are
                going to enter the childhood home of infamous mass murder
                Michael Myers.

                              Freddie
                Barry, we are going to explore the heart of darkness, the
                enigma inside the conundrum in the center of the riddle:
                the childhood home of the most brutal mass murderer in
                history.

                              Barry
                Well, I don't know if it's really --

                              Freddie
                This is the house where Michael Myers was born, where he
                spent his formative years.  If there are any secrets to be
                learned about why he did what he did -- they're in that
                house.  And tomorrow night we'll uncover them.

                              Barry
                I've read where you've promised the five students free
                college tuition through graduation.

                              Freddie
                All they have to do is spend the night in the house and
                discover the truth behind the killer.

                              BARRY
                This is be the first Internet production of its kind, isn't
                that true?

                              Freddie
                        (selling it)
                This is where it's all heading, Barry.  Put down the remote
                and pick up your mouse -- this ain't TV, it's real life.
                The Net as a source of entertainment is an unstoppable
                force.  Or, as I call it...Netertainment!

                              BARRY
                Well, that's quite the sales pitch, Freddie.  But do you
                have any concerns for the safety of the six students?  I
                mean, the house hasn't been entered in how many years?

                              Freddie
                We're not looking to get anyone hurt, Barry, just uncover
                the truth behind a legend.

                              BARRY
                What do you think it says about a society that so many of us
                are willing to sit back and watch other people do things, on
                TV, and, now, on the Net?

                              Freddie
                See, Barry, I believe reality is he biggest illusion of all.
                 Did you know I'm a practicing Buddhist?  Who's to say that
                virtual reality is any less real that real reality?

                              BARRY
                Well, I'm not really sure I --

                              Freddie
                Besides, doesn't everyone have just a little of the voyeur
                in them?



                              BARRY
                Well, I'll let that be a rhetorical question.  How were the
                students picked?

                              Freddie
                They were chosen from among the student body of Braddock
                University just outside Haddonfield.  They represent a cross-
                section of America.  We've got Jim Douglas....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DORM ROOM  - DAY


The room is in an astonishing state of disarray, books and half-written
term papers co-mingling with beer cans and bongs.  JIM DOUGLAS is talking
to an unseen INTERVIEWER.  The sequence is shot in STREAMING VIDEO.

                              INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
                What about the publicity?  The loss of privacy?

                              JIM
                Privacy?  That's a joke, man.  Who's ever private anymore?
                Anywhere you go -- the bank, 7-Eleven -- there's a camera.
                You can't even screw your girlfriend in an elevator anymore
                without winding up on "America's Most Outrageous
                Copulations."  Privacy is an antiquated notion, man.

                              Freddie (V.O.)
                Donna Chang....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. ANOTHER DORM ROOM - DAY


This one couldn't be more different from Jim's.  It's neat and ordered; the
walls are covered with posters of Gloria Steinen and Eleanor Smeal.  DONNA
CHANG, bright, intense, is being interviewed in STREAMING VIDEO.

                              DONNA
                I don't know why I sent my name in.  In many ways it's
                against everything I believe in.  I mean, the sensationalism
                and everything.  But I'm fascinated by the narratives that
                inform our culture.   This is just one of those narratives.

                              Freddie (V.O.)
                Jenna Cartman....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA - DAY


Where we find JENNA CARTMAN, pretty and pouty in jeans and sweatshirt,
working a waitress shift.

                              JENNA
                Well, we're all, like, different people.  Donna is real, you
                know, political.  She's all like, you shouldn't buy into
                this whole Madison Avenue paternal media whatever.  Like I
                give a shit that some fat chick burned her bra fifty years
                ago.

                              Freddie (V.O.)
                Rudy Johnson....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. KITCHEN - DAY


At the university's Home Economics program, where we watch RUDY JOHNSON in
STREAMING VIDEO as he prepares a soufflé.

                              RUDY
                A group of people is like the ingredients in a recipe.  You
                have to nurse them along, be attentive, and everything will
                blend just perfectly.  If you don't -- disaster.


He flashes a smile as he slips the soufflé in the oven.

                              FREDDIE (V.O.)
                Bill Woodhouse....

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. ATHLETIC FIELD - DAY


We FOLLOW student BILL WOODHOUSE, in STREAMING VIDEO, as he takes a lap
around the track.

                              BILL
                Yeah, Rudy's got this whole peace-out thing going, like
                we're this little microcosm of America, our own little
                melting pot.  But it's a fantasy.  Nothing ever really
                melts, it just burns.

                              Freddie (V.O.)
                And Sara Mercer.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY - DAY


Where we find SARA MERCER, attractive in an unassuming way, intelligent
eyes looking earnestly at us in STREAMING VIDEO.

                              SARA
                Actually, I'd never even heard of Michael Myers before the
                drawing.

                              INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
                Really?

                              SARA
                It's just, my scholarship runs out this year and, well, I
                could really use free college tuition and housing till
                graduation.

                              INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
                No interest in uncovering the mystery of the Halloween
                murders?

                              SARA
                        (smiling)
                Well.  Everyone likes a good mystery.

HER IMAGE TRANSFORMS

...FROM STREAMING VIDEO INTO REALITY AS WE GO TO

INT. SARA'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT


Sara is tossing some books in her backpack when we hear the familiar
"You've Got Mail," and she goes to her desk.

ANGLE ON COMPUTER

WHERE WE SEE NEW E-MAIL FROM SOMEONE CALLED "DECKARD799."

ANGLE ON SARA

SMILING AS SHE READS THE MESSAGE.  SHE TYPES HER RESPONSE.

                              SARA
                        (as she types)
                This isn't fair.  You know everything about me and I don't
                know anything about you.

She is about to post, then adds:

                              SARA
                I don't even know if "Deckard" is your real name.

She clicks on "send."

                              FEMALE VOICE (O.S.)
                Chat room romance?

ANGLE TO FIND

SARA'S ROOMMATE, JANE, IN THE OPEN DOORWAY.  SARA TURNS.

                              SARA
                Yes, that's so like me.  Just meet some stud online and
                bingo.

Jane nods to Sara's backpack brimming with books.

                              JANE
                You're not even going to be gone a day.

                                       Sara
                            You know, for the ride over.

                                       JANE
                            A two hour car ride without a book
                             -- wow, that would be torture.

                                       Male voice (O.S.)
                            Don't do it.

                 Angle to find

                 ARON, a geeky guy in a Michael Myers t-shirt, standing in
                 the doorway.

                              Aron
                        (continuing)
                Some things you just don't fuck with.  Michael Myers is one
                of those things.

                              JANE
                Don't you have a letter to write to Charlie Manson or
                something?

                              SARA
                It's just a house, Aron.

                              Aron
                It's the house where it all started.

He comes further into the room.

                              ARON
                        (continuing)
                He walked its hallways, played in its rooms, dreamed in bed
                at night. He kept his mother company in the kitchen, watched
                TV in the living room with the family....



His eyes are lit with the intensity of a zealot.

                              ARON
                        (continuing)
                Then one day he picked up a knife.

                              JANE
                Aron, that's enough.

                              ArON
                        (ignoring her)
                And he never put it down again.

And Jane shoves Aron out the door and closes it.

                              JANE
                That guy is fucking weird.

                              SARA
                        (a beat)
                It's not as if I haven't thought about it, you know, all
                those people killed and here we are, capitalizing on it.

                              JANE
                Yeah, I guess that's never been done before.

On her look at Sara we

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. CAFETERIA - NIGHT


Where we are FOLLOWING Rudy Johnson while he talks on his cell phone.

                              RUDY
                Sherilyn, baby, of course I want to spend Halloween with
                you, but this changes things a little right now.

WIDER ANGLE

AS HE MOVES OVER TO A LONG TABLE DECKED OUT FOR A "GOING AWAY" MEAL.  THE
OTHER STUDENTS ARE TAKING THEIR SEATS.

                              RUDY
                        (continuing)
                Yeah, baby, I remember last Christmas.  But you know I gotta
                go down and sign the papers every time Lester dies.

                              JIM
                        (looking up)
                Every time?

Rudy takes his seat at the table, nods to the others.

                              RUDY
                        (on phone)
                I'll call you, baby....Yeah.  Soon's I get back....Right.
                Bye.

He clicks off the phone, looks around at the others.

                              RUDY
                My kinda girlfriend.

                              BILL
                We kinda figured.

                              JIM
                        (to Rudy)
                What do you mean "every time" Lester dies?

                              DONNA
                Turkey looks good.

                              SARA
                I think it's a goose.

                              JENNA
                Aren't gooses the ones with the long necks?

                              DONNA
                They're called geese.  And swans are the ones with the long
                necks.

But Jim slaps his hand down on the table.

                              JIM
                        (to Rudy)
                No.  I wanna know.  What do you mean "every time" Lester
                dies?

                              RUDY
                Oh, Lester's my uncle.  Great-uncle actually, he's ninety-
                six.

Rudy breaks off a piece of goose drumstick and tastes it.

                              RUDY
                Not bad.  Hint of tarragon.

                              JENNA
                Can you eat swans?

                              RUDY
                Too tough.  Anyway, old Uncle Lester's heart stops every so
                often, usually around the holidays  -- you know, all the
                excitement.
                So they bring him to emergency, get him going again, and I'm
                the one goes down and signs him out.

                              BILL
                Some folks just take a lot of killing, I guess.

                              SARA
                Like Rasputin.

                              JENNA
                Who?

                              SARA
                Turn of the century Russian.  His enemies poisoned him but
                he lived.  So they shot him, and when that didn't work, they
                dumped him in an icy river.

                              RUDY
                White guy?

                              SARA
                Yeah.  Then they burned the body and buried it.

                              RUDY
                That's some cold shit.

                              DONNA
                Look, there's something I need to say....



                              BILL
                Say away, baby.  Haven't had my dose of feminist propaganda
                today.











                              DONNA
                Good one, Bill.
                        (to the others)
                It's just...I don't want this thing to be, well,
                exploitational.

                              BILL
                Jeez, a live-on-the-Net tour
                of the home of the worst serial killer in history.  What
                could be exploitational about that?

                              DONNA
                I don't want this to be seen as glorifying violence.

                              JENNA
                I thought Ted Bundy killed the most people.

                              RUDY
                Nah, man, Bundy is nowhere near the record.  Henry Lee Lucas
                did like three hundred.

                              BILL
                I heard he made a lot of those up.

                              JIM
                You're all missing the point.

The others turn to him.

                              JIM
                Michael Myers isn't real.

                              JENNA
                Sure he is.  There's a book about him and everything.

                              JIM
                He might have been real once, but not anymore.  Michael
                Myers has entered the dark mythology of America, my friends.

                              RUDY
                Dark mythology.  I like that.

                              JIM
                        (hamming it up)
                He's become part of the horror that's been the underside of
                this country ever since the first white man murdered the
                first Indian and started seeing the ghosts of revenge in
                every shadow.

                              RUDY
                Ghosts of revenge?  You just make this shit up?  Out of your
                head like?

                              JIM
                        (on a roll)
                He's the great white shark of our unconscious.

                              BILL
                Go, Jimbo!

                              JIM
                        (building steam)
                He's every murderous impulse we've ever had.

                              RUDY
                Can I get a witness!

                              JIM
                He's the voice that whispers
                to us to flatten the old lady taking forever at the checkout
                counter in front of us.

                              THE OTHERS
                        (chanting)
                Go, Jimbo!  Go, Jimbo!

                              JIM
                He's that little itch at the
                base of our brains where reptiles once ruled.  He's all of
                us, my friends, each and every one.

They give him a sarcastic round of applause and he turns to

THE DIGITAL CAMERA

A FEW YARDS AWAY, WITH A SMALL CREW DOCUMENTING THE OCCASION FOR THE NET.
JIM STANDS, SMILES AT US AND BOWS DRAMATICALLY.

                              JIM (STREAMING VIDEO)
                        (playing to camera)
                Thank you, you're beautiful.  Great crowd, great crowd.

                                                     CUT TO:

A COMPUTER SCREEN


on which we are watching the same image.

                              BOY'S VOICE (O.S.)
                This is boring.

                              BOY'S VOICE #2 (O.S.)
                Boring is as boring thinks.

INt. myles's bedroom - night


This is the room of an adolescent with a high-tech mindset.  Instead of
sports paraphernalia and posters of rock heroes, every available inch of
space is taken up by computer parts of varying age and condition, software
on floppies and CDs, manuals on computer language and code.  MYLES BERMAN
is sitting in front of the computer screen, on which we watch Sara's
interview.

HIS FRIEND SCOTT STANDS WATCHING OVER HIS SHOULDER, BORED.

                              SCOTT
                It's just media hype.

                              MYLES
                Like you don't think she's hot.

ANGLE ON

THE COMPUTER SCREEN, AS THE CAMERA FINDS THE QUIET SARA.

BACK TO SCENE

AS SCOTT LOOKS AT HER, UNIMPRESSED.

                              SCOTT
                She's like what, twenty?

                              MYLES
                Nevertheless.

                              SCOTT
                Can you get some porno up on that thing?

                              MYLES
                Forget it.

                              SCOTT
                Then let's go to the mall.

Myles looks up from the computer for the first time, blinks.

                              SCOTT
                You know, food, movies, real girls.  It would involve
                leaving the room.

                              MYLES
                I promised my mom I'd study.

                              SCOTT
                "Prognosis Negative" just opened at the Multiplex.

                              MYLES
                Isn't that an "R"?

                              SCOTT
                Like they check ID over there.

                              MYLES
                Let me sign off.

But when Scott turns away Myles hits his e-mail "send" and we

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT


We are looking THROUGH the support beams of a wooden SCAFFOLDING, down a
long straight stretch of road with highway lights creating pockets of
light, pools of darkness.  We hear VOICES and find

A PICKUP TRUCK

AT THE SIDE OF THE ROAD.  TWO MEN JERRY AND KENNY, PUT THE FINISHING
TOUCHES ON A BILLBOARD SUPPORTED BY THE SCAFFOLDING.

                              JERRY
                Throw that in the back, will you?

Kenny puts a large, claw-toothed hammer into the flatbed.

THROUGH THE SUPPORTS

A FIGURE APPEARS IN THE DISTANCE, AT FIRST JUST A VAGUE SHIMMERING...BUT
MOVING STEADILY TOWARD US, VANISHING IN EVERY PATCH OF DARKNESS,
REAPPEARING UNDER EACH NEW LIGHT.

THE TWO MEN

GATHER THE REST OF THEIR TOOLS, PUT THEM INTO THE FLATBED.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS


The men climb into the cab.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT


The dark-clad figure suddenly STOPS.  He is looking up.

HIS POV

ON THE BILLBOARD, WHICH WE NOW FINALLY SEE FROM THE FRONT -- A GIANT WHITE
MICHAEL MYERS MASK STARES DOWN AT US UNDER COPY THAT ANNOUNCES:  "SECRETS
OF THE MYERS HOUSE REVEALED.  TOMORROW NIGHT.  LIVE."

ANGLE ON FIGURE

STARING UP AT THE SIGN FOR A LONG TIME, SEEMINGLY FROZEN.

INT. TRUCK -NIGHT


The driver reaches for the ignition, hesitates.  He is looking up at
something.

POV IN REARVIEW MIRROR

WHERE WE SEE THE FIGURE STANDING THERE, IN WHITE MASK, AT THE BACK OF THE
FLATBED.

                              KENNY
                What the -- ?

                              JERRY
                What is it?

The first man turns around quickly.

POV THROUGH REAR WINDOW

...BUT THE FIGURE HAS VANISHED.

ANGLE IN CAB

AS KENNY TURNS BACK TO THE WHEEL.

                              KENNY
                It's nothing.  Just...nothing.

                              JERRY
                The ignition switch is that one right there on the steering
                column.

                              KENNY
                What, like you got a date or something.

                              JERRY
                Well, not with an actual person.

A SHADOW crosses their faces and they both look up

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

AS SUDDENLY THE SHAPE APPEARS OUT OF NOWHERE -- AND SMASHES DOWNWARD WITH
THE HUGE HAMMER -- CRASHING THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD STRAIGHT FOR KENNY'S
SKULL AS WE

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. HADDONFIELD - MORNING


OCTOBER 31st.  HALLOWEEN.

WE MOVE SLOWLY DOWN A TREE-LINED STREET TO FIND

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


The place is long ago boarded up and fallen into disrepair.  Graffiti is
scratched across the façade, left there no doubt by the heartiest of local
teenagers willing to take a dare.

THE FRONT DOOR IS OPEN.  WE HEAR VOICES COMING FROM INSIDE.

WE KEEP MOVING

...SLOWLY UP THE WALKWAY TOWARD THE FRONT DOOR.

INT. MYERS HOUSE - MORNING


We MOVE among the old dusty furniture as through a museum.

                              FREDDIE (O.S.)
                No, I think you got to go a little lower with that one over
                there....

MOVE UP THE STAIRS

WHERE THE VOICES GROW LOUDER.

                              MALE VOICE (O.S.)
                This is what I do for a living, okay?

                              Freddie (O.S.)
                That's why I hired you, isn't it?
                        (a beat)
                No, baby, I wasn't talking to you.

ANGLE TO FIND

FREDDIE IN THE UPSTAIRS HALLWAY, ON THE CELL PHONE WHILE DIRECTING A
THIRTYISH GUY, BRIAN, HOW TO SET UP A SMALL DIGI-CAM.  CHARLEY, A MIDDLE-
AGED ELECTRICIAN, IS RUNNING CABLE IN THE BACKGROUND.

                              FREDDIE
                        (on phone)
                What?  Yeah, baby, just tell them to be cool, a loan means
                they get their money back, right?  They can look that up in
                the dictionary.
                        (to Brian)
                You get the master bedroom?

                              Brian
                Between the stationary cameras and the minis they'll be
                wearing, you should be covered.

                              Freddie
                        (on phone)
                I got my own problems, here, baby, I'm dealing with Orson
                fucking Welles Junior here.
                        (to Brian)
                Look, Brian, we're not remaking "Barton Fink" here.  I'm on
                a schedule.

Brian turns to him.

                              BRIAN
                High angles are scary, low angles are scary, medium angles
                are boring.



                              Freddie
                You learned about scaring people shooting weddings and Bar
                Mitzvahs?

                              Brian
                Hey, I graduated Long Beach Film School.  Same as Spielberg.

                              Freddie
                        (frustrated)
                Fine.  You know...fine.
                        (on phone)
                I'll call you later, baby, I gotta get back to town.

He flips the phone closed, looks back over at Brian.

                              FREDDIE
                Just make sure it gets done by this afternoon.

He passes Brian in the hallway, heading for the stairs.

                              BRIAN
                By the way....

Freddie turns back to him.

                              BRIAN
                Welles was overrated.

Freddie just shakes his head and continues down the stairs. FOLLOW HIM out
the front door, mumbling to himself.

                              FREDDIE
                Welles was overrated.  Shit.  Man was a motherfucking
                genius.

THE IMAGE TRANSFORMS

INTO VIDEO AS WE LOOK THROUGH A WINDOW AS FREDDIE GETS IN HIS CAR.  AS THE
CAR PULLS OUT...WE GET JUST A HINT OF ANOTHER VEHICLE PASSING.

WIDER TO INCLUDE

BRIAN LOOKING THROUGH THE VIDEO CAMERA FOR A TEST.  HE TURNS IT OFF, SETS
IT DOWN, LOOKS DIRECTLY OUT THE WINDOW.

HIS POV

...AS WE SEE JUST THE TAIL END OF A PICKUP TRUCK DISAPPEARING UNDER A RED-
LEAFED AUTUMN TREE.

ANGLE ON BRIAN

AS HE TURNS BACK INTO THE HOUSE, LOOKS AROUND FOR A PLACE TO POSITION THE
NEXT CAMERA.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT SANITARIUM - DAY


Police and state mental health OFFICIALS move about gathering information
and evidence.  Two DETECTIVES are interviewing the hapless Franklin Munroe.

                              DETECTIVE
                But you're saying all the other patients are accounted for.

                              FRANKLIN
                Like I told you, there was someone else in the building.
                How he got out I don't know.

ANGLE TO FIND

A QUIET, SERIOUS, DARK-SUITED MAN WATCHING FROM A FEW YARDS AWAY:  JEB
DONASLDSON STEPS OVER, FLASHES HIS WALLET I.D.

                              DONALDSON
                Jeb Donaldson, State Police.

                              Detective
                I'm just about finished with this man.

                              DonaldSON
                Take your time.  I'm just a fly on the wall.

                              FRANKLIN
                        (to first cop)
                Look, man, all I know is what I saw.

                              DeTECTIVE
                And this other patient...
                        (checking his notes)
                ...Harold Trumble.  You're certain he was in his room.

                              Franklin
                I saw him on the monitor and when I checked his room he was
                in it.

                              DonaLDSON
                Your monitors cover the entire grounds?

                              FRANKLIN
                Yeah, man, but there are some, like, blind stops.  Around
                corners, the stairwells, that kind of thing.

Donaldson nods, moves over to

THE SECURITY DESK

WHERE OTHER OFFICERS ARE GOING OVER LAST NIGHT'S TAPES.

THE SECURITY MONITORS

SHOW THE VARIOUS VIEWS FROM AROUND THE FACILITY RECORDED LAST NIGHT:  WE
SEE THE BABBLING HAROLD ON ONE, THE DARK-CLAD FIGURE APPROACHING LAURIE'S
DOOR ON ANOTHER.

ANGLE ON

DONALDSON AS HE WATCHES CURIOUSLY FOR A MOMENT UNTIL A HOSPITAL
ADMINISTRATOR, HORACE JORDAN, COMES UP ALONGSIDE.

                              JORDAN
                You Donaldson from State Police?

Donaldson looks up and smiles pleasantly at the man.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. SANITARIUM - DAY


The two men walk down a hallway on another floor.

                              JORDAN
                He's actually quite harmless, despite his fascination.

                              DonaLDSON
                Well, you never know what he might've seen.  Always best to
                --

He's cut off by the RING of a cell phone.  He takes it out of his coat
pocket, squints at the number, shrugs at Jordan.

                              DONALDSON
                Duty calls.
                        (on cell phone)
                Yes, honey....No, I haven't forgotten....I'll pick them up
                on the way home....Yes, I've got it....Two quarts....Right.
                Love you.  Bye.

He hangs up the phone, Jordan looks at him.

                              JORDAN
                Yeah, I'm married too.

They reach one of the doors and Jordan OPENS it.

INT. HAROLD'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS


Harold looks up at them -- wearing a Laurie Strode novelty mask.

                              HAROLD
                Laurie Strode, sister of mass murderer Michael Myers....

The two men stop in the doorway, look at him, at each other.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. SARA'S ROOM - AFTERNOON


Sara is at her computer reading her e-mail as Jane comes in.

                              JANE
                Shouldn't you be getting ready?

                              SARA
                I'm ready.

Jane looks at her disapprovingly.

                              JANE
                You're wearing that?



                              Sara
                I thought I was.

                              JANE
                I mean, you're going to be all over the Internet and
                everything.  I better find you something.

She goes to the closet, rummages through her clothes.

                              JANE
                So, you don't think it's kind of, well, creepy, going in
                that house?

                              SARA
                        (a few beats)
                When I was a little girl there was this streetlamp outside
                my window.  And when the curtain blew in just the right way,
                it cast a shadow on my wall that looked like -- this is
                going to sound silly.

Jane stops rummaging, turns to Sara.

                              JANE
                No, what?

                              SARA
                Well, it looked like a giant rabbit.

                              Jane
                        (laughing)
                A rabbit?

                              SARA
                Go figure.  I was scared of rabbits.  It's something about
                the ears.

                              Jane
                Yes!  I can see that.

                              SARA
                Anyway, I'd lie there, unable to move, wanting to shut my
                eyes but afraid to.  I didn't want to call to my parents
                because I knew that it wasn't real, that it was just
                a shadow on the wall.  I didn't want them to think I was
                weak.

                              JaNe
                You knew it was a shadow but you were still scared?

                              SARA
                That's the thing about fear.  It doesn't matter if it's a
                killer rabbit or just a shadow.

                              JANE
                I guess not.

Jane finds a sexy sweater, steps over to Sara, looks over her shoulder at
the computer screen open to her e-mail reader.

                              JANE
                Same guy?

                              SARA
                Yeah.  He's in graduate school.

                              JANE
                I'll bet.  Probably some fifty-year-old lard-ass with a bad
                comb-over.

Jane drapes the sweater over Sara's shoulders and steps back.

                              JANE
                Perfect!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - AFTERNOON


Myles sits at his computer, distracted.

                              SCOTT (O.S.)

So the good news is....

ANGLE TO FIND

SCOTT STANDING AT THE OPEN DOOR OF THE ROOM.  MYLES LOOKS OVER AT HIM.

                              MYLES
                Make some noise or something when you come in.

                              SCOTT
                I told your mom we were studying.  You want to hear the news
                or not?

                              MYLES
                Sure.

                              ScOTT
                I scored us an invite to Jennifer's Halloween Net party
                tonight.  You'll get to see your girlfriend hi-def
                widescreen.

                              MYLES
                Yeah, great.

                              ScOTT
                Well, thanks for the enthusiasm.

                              MYLES
                Man, I really screwed up.

                              ScOTT
                Well, I could've told you that.

                              MYLES
                No, this is serious.

Scott comes farther into the room, looks at his friend.

                              MYLES
                        (continuing)
                There's this...person I know and somehow she kinda got the
                idea I'm...older than I am.

                              SCOTT
                She?  There's a "she" in your life?

Myles looks over at the computer, back at Scott.

                              SCOTT
                        (realizing)
                No!

Myles steps over to the computer, calls up his e-mail reader.

                              MYLES
                Check it out.

Scott reads one of Sara's messages, his eyes widening.

                              SCOTT
                Holy shit.  This is the chick in the Halloween thing.

                              MYLES
                We met in a chat room.

Scott turns and stares at his friend.

                              SCOTT
                You are God, man.

                              MYLES
                She was asking for tech support to set up her off-line
                reader and...
                oh, what difference does it make.

                              SCOTT
                This is so cool!

                              MYLES
                Are you out of your mind?  She thinks I'm in graduate
                school.  I told her I'm twenty-four.

                              SCOTT
                You actually convinced a college chick you're in her league?
                 I'd say that's cool.

                              MYLES
                She thinks I'm a physics major.
                ScOTT
                Your first mistake.  You should've said business.  Women
                really go for that kind of guy.  Too bad you're not that
                kind of guy.

                              MYLES
                Like we're ever going to meet.

                              SCOTT
                Then what's the point?

                              MYLES
                Did you know that in the Middle Ages sometimes a knight
                would spend his entire life courting a woman in poems and
                sonnets?  They'd never even touch.

                              SCOTT
                You need help, man.

                              MYLES
                Leave me alone.

                              SCOTT
                No, really.  I'm worried about you.  They don't have you on
                Ritalin or anything, do they?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DONALDSON'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON


Donaldson is sitting in his very low-tech space.  If it weren't for the
voices and occasional static-laced dispatch sounds in the BACKGROUND, we
wouldn't know he's carved this dark space of an office out of State Police
headquarters.  The only anomaly among the ancient filing cabinets and
stacks of paperwork is the computer sitting on his cluttered desk.  He
looks at it as if it were an alien presence.  He looks down at a pad on his
desk.

INSERT PAD

COVERED WITH HIS NOTES FROM THE SANITARIUM.  WE SEE THE NAME UNDERLINED:
LAURIE STRODE.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS HE STANDS UP, STRETCHES, MOVES TO THE WINDOW.

POV THROUGH WINDOW

AS HALLOWEEN BEGINS TO TAKE SHAPE.  WE SEE COSTUMED KIDS, SOME OF THEM
WEARING CHEAP MICHAEL MYERS MASKS, MOVING IN SMALL CLUSTERS, OLDER ONES ON
THE EDGE OF ROWDINESS, LITTLE ONES SHEPHERDED BY WATCHFUL PARENTS.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS HE TURNS AROUND -- AND SUDDENLY A FACE APPEARS BEHIND HIM, HORRIBLE AND
GHOULISH -- AND HE JUMPS BACK, STARTLED.

ANGLE ON

THE "GHOUL" AS IT REMOVES WHAT PROVES TO BE A HALLOWEEN MASK, REVEALING A
YOUNG DESK-DUTY OFFICER, NORA MANN.

                              DONALDSON
                Jesus, Nora.

                              Nora
                Oh, did I startle you?

                              DonalDSON
                At what point in your training did they tell you a sense of
                humor was important?

                              NoRA
                Hmm.  I don't seem to recall.

                              DonalDSON
                And the purpose of this visit?  Other than to jump-start my
                heart.

                              NoRA
                Haddonfield P.D.'s faxing us what you asked for on Laurie
                Strode.  There's a shitload of it.  On the other hand, you
                could save a forest by entering the electronic age.

She looks over at the computer on his desk, back at him.

                              NORA
                She ain't hard to find.

                              DonalDSON
                Isn't there someone out there with a heart condition you can
                try that mask on?

                              NoRA
                I'll see what I can do.

She turns and leaves the room.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS HE LOOKS BACK AT THE COMPUTER.  HE SIGHS, THEN FINALLY SITS BACK DOWN AT
HIS DESK, MOVES THE MOUSE AND CLICKS.  WE HEAR THE ANNOYING CONNECTION
NOISE AS THE INTERNET COMES UP.  HE TYPES SOMETHING ON THE KEYBOARD.

THE COMPUTER SCREEN

IS ON A SEARCH ENGINE AS HE TYPES IN "LAURIE STRODE" AND CLICKS THE MOUSE
AGAIN.  ABOUT A HUNDRED REFERENCES POP UP.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS HE LOOKS AT THE COMPUTER SCREEN CURIOUSLY.  HE MOVES THE MOUSE, WE HEAR
THE CLICKS, WATCH DIFFERENT COLORS PLAY ACROSS HIS FACE AS DIFFERENT SITES
COME UP.  UNTIL:

ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN

WE SEE A WEB SITE SLOWLY COME UP, RENDERING SHAPE FROM BLOTCHES OF
COLOR...TURNING INTO THE MICHAEL MYERS HOME PAGE.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS THE INVESTIGATOR LOOKS CURIOUSLY AT THE COMPUTER SCREEN A MOMENT.  HE
DRUMS HIS FINGERS RESTLESSLY ON HIS DESK.  LOOKS AT HIS NOTES.  AT THE
COMPUTER SCREEN.  BACK AT HIS NOTES.

THEN HE STANDS, GRABS HIS COAT, AND HEADS FOR THE DOOR....

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - AFTERNOON


We find Brian at the equipment truck parked at the curb, getting another
mini-DV camera out of the back, while on his cell phone.

                              BRIAN
                Yeah, I've just got one placement left and we're ready to
                roll.

FOLLOW HIM up the walkway toward the house with the camera.

                              BRIAN
                        (continuing)
                We'll be up and running in no time.

As he heads up the steps of the porch we

ANGLE TO FIND

...THE OLD PICKUP TRUCK PARTIALLY HIDDEN BY THE FALL TREES.

INT. MYERS HOUSE - AFTERNOON


Brian carries the camera up the stairs and down a hall toward a narrow
cabinet.  He stops, hears something from downstairs.

HIS POV

DOWN THE STAIRS...THERE'S NOTHING THERE.

FOLLOW HIM

AS HE TURNS AWAY, MOVES DOWN THE HALLWAY TO THE CABINET.  HE  YANKS IT OPEN
-- AND SOMETHING FLIES OUT AT HIM OUT OF THE DARKNESS. HE JUMPS BACK
STARTLED, THEN LOOKS DOWN AT THE STUFFED ANIMAL LYING AT HIS FEET:  A
CHILD'S ANCIENT PINK EASTER BUNNY.  HE STRAIGHTENS AND TURNS BACK TO THE
CABINET. THEN HE HEARS ANOTHER SOUND, COMING FROM BEHIND HIM.

ANGLE DOWN HALLWAY

AS HE SETS DOWN THE CAMERA.  HE STARTS MOVING DOWN THE HALL.  NOW IT'S
QUIET AGAIN.  HE PEERS INTO THE DOORWAY OF A BEDROOM, BUT THERE'S NOTHING
THERE.  HE TURNS BACK INTO THE HALL -- WHEN SUDDENLY A SHAPE COMES UP AT
HIM FROM BEHIND A DOOR, FEATURELESS WHITE MASK STARING AT HIM --

BRIAN JUMPS BACK IN FRIGHT -- BUT THE FIGURE SIMPLY PULLS THE CHEAP NOVELTY
MASK DOWN FROM HIS FACE...REVEALING CHARLEY, THE JUMPSUITED TECHNICIAN,
GRINNING AT HIM.

                              BRIAN
                Jesus shit, man!

                              Charley
                Hey, it's Halloween, get into the spirit.

                              Brian
                I'm here to do a fucking job, okay?

                              CHARLEY
                Sorry, it was just a joke.  Don't go Oliver Stone on me.

                              Brian
                Look, just check out the control room and make sure we're
                going online tonight, okay?

                              CHARLEY
                You got it.

Charley turns away and heads down the stairs and we

FOLLOW BRIAN

BACK TO THE CABINET.  HE LIFTS THE CAMERA AND POSITIONS IT.  THEN HE HEARS
SOMETHING BEHIND HIM.  THIS TIME HE JUST IGNORES IT, SIGHING.  HE REACHES
AROUND BEHIND THE CAMERA AND

THROUGH THE CAMERA

THE VIDEO IMAGE COMES ON -- AS WE SEE THE SHAPE COMING UP BEHIND BRIAN AND
WE

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - SAME TIME


Which as been turned into a CONTROL ROOM of sorts.  Charley takes up
position at a MIXING PANEL with an array of dials, levers, and switchers,
controlling a bank of MONITORS.  It's somewhat jury-rigged, with a tangle
of wires and electrical cables feeding the system.

CHARLEY SETS A GIANT CUP OF STARBUCK'S MOCHACCINO AT THE EDGE.  HE FLIPS A
SWITCH ON THE CONSOLE AND SEVERAL MONITORS LIGHT UP.  HE REACHES TO TAKE A
SIP OF HIS COFFEE, NEVER NOTICING THAT ON ONE OF THE MONITORS MICHAEL MYERS
IS PULLING BRIAN OUT OF VIEW.

BY THE TIME CHARLEY LOOKS UP, THE MONITOR SHOWS NOTHING.

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. CAMPUS - LATE AFTERNOON


The students have assembled in the PARKING LOT, a small group of other
college kids there to see them off.  One young guy has a VIDEO CAMERA to
memorialize the occasion.

                              STUDENT
                        (to Bill)
                So, tell us, tough guy, what are you going to do if Michael
                Myers decides to come home tonight?

                              Bill
                Hide behind one of the women?

                              Rudy
                At least he's honest.

                              Jenna
                        (looking at her watch)
                Why are men always late?

                              JiM
                Just giving you time to touch up your makeup.

Jenna sighs, looks back at her watch.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. VAN - AFTERNOON


Looking THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD as the van turns into the university
driveway, Freddie behind the wheel.

EXT. CAMPUS - AFTERNOON


The van PULLS UP and the doors open as Freddie turns to them.

                              FREDDIE
                You folks need a ride?

Int. van - aFTERNOON


They all climb on board and take their seats.

                              FREDDIE
                Buckle yourselves in, kids, I'm not known for my driving.

ANGLE ON SARA

SETTLING INTO HER SEAT NEAR THE BACK, AS FREDDIE STARTS PULLING OUT OF THE
PARKING LOT.

HER POV

OUT THE WINDOW...AS WE SEE ARON, AMID THE SMALL CLUSTER OF OTHER STUDENTS,
WATCHING SOMBERLY AS THE VAN PULLS AWAY.

                              FREDDIE (O.S.)
                The house has been rigged with cameras.

ANGLE IN VAN

AS FREDDIE CONTINUES HIS SPIEL.

                              FREDDIE
                        (continuing)
                So keep your fingers out of your noses, kids, don't be doing
                anything you don't want the viewing public to see.

Jim gives Donna a nudge.

                              JIM
                You like an audience, don't you?

                              DONNA
                Have I forgotten to ignore you today?

                              JIM
                No, I think you remembered.

                              DONNA
                Good.  Just checking.

                              Freddie
                And leave your cell phones in the van, I don't want them
                going off and blowing the atmospherics.

                              Jenna
                No cell phones?

                              BILL
                Yeah, imagine that.  Kind of what it was like in Grandpa's
                day.

The students settle into their seats for the long ride.

ANGLE ON VAN

AS IT ZIPS PAST US DOWN THE LONG STRAIGHT ROAD.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DONALDSON'S CAR - LATE AFTERNOON


We find the state cop intent behind the wheel.  His cell phone RINGS.  He
looks at the number, sighs, answers it.

                              DONALDSON
                Yes, honey....I left you a message....No, I'll be back late
                tonight....What?...Well, I imagine I can pick it up at the
                market, they're open twenty-four hours, aren't they?...Yes.
                I will....Only one quart?...Yes, got it....Love you too.
                Bye.

He flips the phone closed and we GO TO an

ANGLE ON CAR

AS IT PASSES US AND

WE FIND

THE ROAD SIGN INDICATING:  "HADDONFIELD, 93 MILES."

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. VAN - DUSK


The six students are looking out the windows as they turn down a tree-lined
street and come to a STOP in front of:

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


Dark and quiet in the early NIGHT.  Charley waits on the front lawn, with a
camera to catch the arrival.

INT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


We move slowly over to an upstairs window.  We see the curtains being
pulled slightly apart.

THROUGH MICHAEL'S EYES

WE WATCH OUT THE WINDOW AS THE VAN DOORS OPEN AND FREDDIE AND THE KIDS
CLIMB OUT....

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


Charley comes over carrying a large plastic box.

                              FREDDIE
                Where's Brian?

                              CHARLEY
                Finished up and took off. I haven't seen him since this
                afternoon.

                              Freddie
                Shit.

                              CHARLEY
                Don't need him.  Once we're up the system pretty much runs
                itself.

                              Freddie
                Gear 'em up and let's get rolling.

Charley hands each of them a large, police-style flashlight, then pulls out
what looks like a baseball-style cap, puts it on his head.  He turns to the
students.

                              CHARLEY
                This is a hat-cam.  Whatever you see, we'll see.  I've also
                got some mini clip-on cameras.

THROUGH THE HAT-CAM

WE SEE THE STUDENTS LOOKING BACK AT US.

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


Charley hands out hat-cams and several species of clip-on mini-cameras,
then jogs to the garage.  We notice the large portable generator parked
outside.

FREDDIE CHECKS HIS WATCH.

                              FREDDIE
                All right, guys, two minutes.

Jenna checks her hair in the van side mirror.

                              JIM
                Lighten up, Jenna, it's streaming video, not cinemascope.

Freddie gets on a walkie-talkie.

                              FREDDIE
                You getting set up back there, Charley?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - FOLLOWING


Charley takes up position at a CONTROL CONSOLE, takes a sip of his
everpresent Mochaccino, and picks up his walkie.

                              CHARLEY
                Coming on line....

And he flips a few switches and

THE MONITORS

LIGHT UP WITH VARIOUS VIEWS FROM AROUND THE HOUSE.  FROM THE KIDS' MINI-
CAMS WE SEE FREDDIE AT THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. PARTY HOUSE - NIGHT


High school kids are arriving for tonight's Internet Halloween party, Myles
and Scott included.

ON THE PLASMA SCREEN

ACROSS THE ROOM WE SEE FREDDIE TALKING TO CAMERA:

                              FREDDIE (STREAMING VIDEO)
                We're here in front of the Myers house in Haddonfield.  I'm
                about to go to the control room.
                        (to the students)
                Sixty seconds....

SUDDENLY we go INTO the PLASMA SCREEN and POP OUT at

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


as Freddie heads around back and into:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - FOLLOWING


Freddie positions himself at the console beside Charley.

                              FREDDIE
                        (continuing)
                From here we'll be watching the team members as they enter
                and move about the Myers house.
                        (to Charley)
                We ready?

                              CHARLEY
                Everything's a go.

Freddie scowls at Charley's giant cup of Mochaccino.

                              FREDDIE
                You know how much caffeine they got in one of those?

                              CHARLEY
                Let me guess.  A lot?

                              Freddie
                That shit'll kill you.

                              ChaRLEY
                Well, that's all just a matter of timing, isn't it?

ON THE MONITORS

WE WATCH AS THE STUDENTS APPROACH THE DOOR OF THE OLD HOUSE.

INT. MYERS HOUSE - FOLLOWING


The door creaks OPEN and they enter.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. PARTY HOUSE - NIGHT


We see a GRID of views from around the Myers house play across the PLASMA
SCREEN before the audience of high school kids.  One of the boys works a
mouse across the grid to maximize one view or another.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


The students poke about with FLASHLIGHTS:  the furniture all appears to be
in place, covered with years worth of dust.  It's as if the occupants
quickly fled a disaster.

                              BILL
                Let's keep an eye on each other, this place is old, might
                have rotting timbers.

                              RUDY
                Did you think I was planning on wandering around here by
                myself?

                              Donna
                Looks like nothing's been moved in years.

                              SARA
                After the murders the family just sealed the place off and
                left everything.

                              JiM
                Don't suppose they would've had much luck finding buyers
                anyway.

Int. KITCHEN - nIGHT


The five students enter, their flashlight beams casting about the old
fixtures.

                              RUDY
                I love these old stoves.  Call me crazy, but I just don't
                think electric burners allow flavors to meld the same way.

                              Donna
                Not a big fan of the microwave, I take it.

He looks at her with disdain.

                              BILL
                And it's so quick.

Rudy goes over to examine an old spice rack, pulls a jar out.

                              RUDY
                Wow, wonder what twenty-year-old fennel tastes like.
                Jim
                What are we going to find in the kitchen?  Unless you think
                his diet turned him into a killer.

                              Jenna
                Wasn't there that serial killer who ate all those Devil
                Dogs?

                              DonnA
                That was Twinkies.

                              Sara
                And he wasn't a serial killer.

                              BILL
                Check this out....

ANGLE ON

BILL, OVER BY THE KITCHEN COUNTER.  HE IS LOOKING AT AN OLD KNIFE RACK.
SLOWLY HE PULLS A LARGE BLADE OUT OF ITS SLOT.

                              RUDY
                You don't suppose that's the one he used to....

                              JiM
                No way, cops would've kept that in an evidence locker
                somewhere.

                              Jenna
                Still, it's pretty creepy.

                              RuDY
                Fuck yeah.

                              JIM
                Duly noted.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE SAME IMAGE


viewed through Rudy's HAT-CAM VIEW, seen on a MONITOR.

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


The two men at the CONTROL PANEL, watching the same image.

POV FROM BACK DOOR WINDOW

WHERE SOMEONE IS WATCHING THEM TOO....

ANGLE ON FREDDIE

AS HE TURNS AROUND, IF SENSING SOMETHING.  HE LOOKS THROUGH THE BACK DOOR
WINDOW -- BUT NOW IT IS EMPTY.

HE TURNS BACK TO THE MONITORS.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT


The students moving back through the living room.

                              BILL
                        (to Jim and Donna)
                Why don't you check out the basement?  We'll look upstairs.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DONALDSON'S CAR - NIGHT


The police detective turns the wheel toward an exit.

ANGLE ON CAR

AS IT WHIZZES ONTO THE EXIT RAMP MARKED FOR "HADDONFIELD."

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BASEMENT - NIGHT


Jim and Donna walk down rickety stairs, their FLASHLIGHT BEAMS cutting
across piles of old furniture, firewood, cartons, beams and shadows
crisscrossed by naked pipes.

                              DONNA
                So, why do you think he did it?

                              JIM
                Population control.

They wander about in the semi-dark.

                              DONNA
                I have a theory.

                              JIM
                Let me guess.  TV violence.

He moves over to an ancient console television, sits on it.

                              JIM
                        (continuing)
                I mean, they didn't have video games back then, so it must
                have been Saturday morning cartoons that turned him into a
                killer.

                              Donna
                I think he just liked it.

Jim moves over to her, looks at her face in the half-light.

                              JIM
                What, no abuse excuse?  No Freud?  Don't tell me that
                beneath that icy surface you actually believe in free will.
                Makes me want to see what other doors of mystery you might
                open to the man with the right key.

                              Donna
                Does that half-ass Jim Morrison shit work with the chicks in
                the poetry department?

                              JIM
                It's been known to.

                              Donna
                Yeah?  Well, it doesn't cut it with critical studies.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT


Bill, Rudy, Jenna, and Sara enter what looks like the MASTER BEDROOM.
Jenna flops onto the bed, creating a cloud of dust that makes them cough.

                              BILL
                Good one, Jenna.

                              JeNNA
                Do you suppose this is where he was, you know, conceived?

                              RUDY
                Man, I don't even have an opinion.

Sara opens the door of a walk-in closet, pushes away a mass of cobwebs,
steps inside.

                              BILL
                What are you looking for?

                              RUDY
                Maybe she'll find a man-size dress in there.

Jenna looks at him blankly.

                              RUDY
                You know, like Papa was Norman Bates or some shit.

                              JeNNA
                Who's Norman Bates?



He just looks at her and sighs.

                              BILL
                        (to Sara)
                You finding anything in there?

ANGLE IN CLOSET

AS SARA PUSHES ASIDE SOME HANGING CLOTHES -- AND A WHITE FACE PEERS BACK AT
HER FROM THE DARKNESS --

SARA SCREAMS AND FALLS BACK AGAINST THE DOOR, PUSHING IT SHUT BEHIND HER
AND LEAVING HER IN THE DARK AS HER FLASHLIGHT TUMBLES TO THE FLOOR.

ANGLE IN BEDROOM

AS BILL AND RUDY RUN OVER BUT THE DOOR IS JAMMED TIGHT.

                              RUDY
                Sara!  You okay?

                              Bill
                Sara!

INSIDE THE CLOSET

SARA FINDS HER FLASHLIGHT JUST AS THE DOOR OPENS AND --

A TAILOR'S MANNEQUIN IN A CHEAP WIG TUMBLES FREE FROM BEHIND THE CLOTHES,
FALLING HARMLESSLY TO THE FLOOR.

ANGLE ON

SARA, RUDY, AND BILL, STARING DOWN AT THE THING.

                              SARA
                Oh, Jesus, I can't believe that scared me.

                              Rudy
                It's okay, it's cool.  Y'all don't mind if I sit down right
                now.

He steps back, sits down on the bed -- then realizes where he is and jumps
back up.

                              RUDY
                Actually, I think I'll stand.

They all start laughing at the ridiculousness of it.

THEN SARA LOOKS AROUND.

                              SARA
                Where's Jenna?

And SUDDENLY we are SUCKED out of the scene and POP OUT:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie and Charley watching on the monitors.

                              CHARLEY
                Mind if I grab a smoke?

                              Freddie
                As long as it's not near me.

Charley gets up, heads for the back door.

                              FREDDIE
                I hear that shit's bad for you.  It was in all the papers.

                              CharLEY
                You planning on living forever?

Charley steps outside, Freddie looks at the monitors.

                              FREDDIE
                        (to himself)
                I'm thinking about it.

Freddie looks over at Charley's giant cup of Mochaccino.  He picks it up,
sniffs it and grimaces, sets it back down.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT


Where we find Rudy wandering down an upstairs HALLWAY.

                              RUDY
                Jenna, where'd you go?

At the end of the hall he looks up, stops a rope hanging down from the trap
door leading to the attic.

HE REACHES UP, PULLS ON THE ROPE, BUT IT'S SUCK.  HE KEEPS TUGGING AT IT,
THEN HEARS SOMETHING FROM BEHIND HIM.

HE TURNS, LOOKS BACK.

HIS POV

DOWN THE DARK HALLWAY.  ONLY SHADOWS.

ANGLE ON RUDY

AS HE TURNS AWAY FROM THE ATTIC DOOR, STARTS DOWN THE HALL.

                              RUDY
                Jenna...?

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. BACKYARD - FOLLOWING


Charley steps out into the night.  Reaches to his shirt pocket for his
cigarettes.  We hear the CRACK of a branch.  He looks over into the narrow
alley between the garage and house.  He starts to turn away, then hears
another sound.

FOLLOW HIM

AS HE WALKS INTO THE SHADOWY SPACE.

BEHIND THEM

WE SEE A LARGE SHAPE COME UP IN THE DARKNESS.

ANGLE ON CHARLEY

AS HE CONTINUES DOWN THE ALLEY ANOTHER FEW FEET THEN TURNS AROUND -- AND
THE SHAPE IS STANDING THERE BLOCKING HIS WAY.  CHARLEY IS ONLY MOMENTARILY
STARTLED, BUT NOT SURPRISED.

                              CHARLEY
                What the hell are you doing out here?  I thought you were
                supposed to --

But he is cut off in mid-thought.  His mouth opens but nothing comes out.
He looks down at his stomach -- and sees the gardener's trowel imbedded in
there, Michael Myers's hand wrapped around the handle.  On Charley's
bewildered look we

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT


Jim playfully swings around in front of Donna, blocking her.

                              JIM
                Come on, when are you going to admit you like me?

                              Donna
                That's a double bind question.  Kind of like, "Have you
                stopped beating your dog?"

But suddenly she grabs his shirt and pulls him to her.

                              DONNA
                        (seductively)
                So tell me -- have you stopped beating your dog?

TIGHTER ON THEM

AS JIM IS TAKEN ABACK WHEN SHE KISSES HIM PASSIONATELY.  AND IN AN INSTANT
THEY ARE ALL OVER EACH OTHER, KISSING, GROPING, UNTIL DONNA PUSHES HIM
GENTLY AWAY.

                              DONNA
                You suppose they've got cameras down here?

He points to the lapel cam she's wearing.

                              JIM
                Afraid of losing your standing in the sisterhood?

                              Donna
                Don't flatter yourself.  Screwing a poetry major would
                practically be lesbianism.

                              JIM
                I can get behind that.

He folds her sweater back to BLOCK the lapel cam, then kisses her again and
they fall back against an old door -- and SUDDENLY the ancient wood of the
door GIVES WAY and they TUMBLE through it and land on the dusty floor
inside.

INT. BASEMENT ROOM - CONTINUOUS


Their flashlights roll free casting crazy shifting light --

HITTING FACES

ALL AROUND THEM, WILD FERAL ANIMAL FACES WITH GAPING JAWS.

ANGLE ON

JIM AND DONNA AS THEY REGROUP, FIND THEIR FLASHLIGHTS, GET BACK TO THEIR
FEET.  NOW WE SEE THAT ALL AROUND THEM IS A MACABRE COLLECTION OF SKINNED
AND STUFFED ANIMALS:  A HUGE GERMAN SHEPHERD, SEVERAL CATS, EXOTIC BIRDS,
PART OF WHAT WE MAY ONLY CONCLUDE TO BE A BIZARRE FAMILY PET COLLECTION.

                              JIM
                This was one weird family.

                              Donna
                You should meet my cousins.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE SAME IMAGES


on the giant PLASMA SCREEN.

INT. PARTY - NIGHT


The Internet party guests watch the action.

                              STAN
                Cool!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie watching on the MONITOR.  He smiles.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT


Sara and Bill enter what looks like the room of a small boy.  Apart from
decades of dust, it seems preserved in a pristine state, as if it were some
kind of shrine.  Stuffed animals gaze back at us from the bed, Lionel train
tracks circumnavigate the room, a baseball and mitt sit perched on the
dresser.

                              SARA
                This must've been his room.

                              bill
                Looks like any kid's room.

                              SARA
                Everything seems frozen in time.

                              BILL
                His parents probably never came in here after the murders.

                              SARA
                Look at this.

ANGLE ON

AN OLD TRUNK AT THE FOOT OF THE SMALL BED.  SARA KNEELS BESIDE IT, TRIES TO
GET IT OPEN.

                              SARA
                It's stuck.

ANGLE ON

BILL, GOING THROUGH THE DRAWERS OF A CHILD-SIZE DRESSER.

                              SARA
                What are you looking for?

                              BILL
                See if he had a baseball card collection.  You know how much
                those things would be worth?

ANGLE ON

SARA AS SHE FINALLY GETS THE ANCIENT TRUNK LID OPEN -- AND A SMALL HEAD
POPS OUT AND SHE FALLS BACK ONTO HER SEAT.  THE HEAD BOBS CRAZILY ON A
SPRING AND WE REALIZE IT'S AN OLD JACK-IN-THE-BOX, WITH EERIE PAINTED FACE
AND GAZING GLASS EYES.

BILL LOOKS OVER FROM THE DRESSER.

                              BILL
                Kid had a sense of humor.

Sara catches her breath, looks inside the trunk and finds a family photo
album.  She opens it.

INSERT ALBUM

WHERE WE SEE EARLY SIXTIES SNAPSHOTS OF A COUPLE WITH A DAUGHTER AND YOUNG
SON...THEN THE ADDITION OF A BABY GIRL...THE KIDS GROWING TO SCHOOL AGE....

ANGLE IN ROOM

AS BILL SLAMS SHUT THE LAST DRAWER, GOES OVER TO A SIDE DOOR.  HE OPENS IT
AND STEPS INTO AN ADJOINING ROOM.

                              BILL
                I'm gonna see what's in here.

Sara looks back at the photo album.

INSERT ALBUM

THE BOY IN THE PHOTOS GROWS INCREASINGLY DISTANT.  THERE ARE SHOTS WITH HIM
OFF TO THE SIDE, RESENTFULLY WATCHING HIS PARENTS CUDDLING HIS NEW BABY
SISTER.

GO CLOSER ON THE PHOTO OF THE BOY, MOVING INTO THE DEEP-SET HAUNTED EYES --
ARE THEY SAD, RESENTFUL, OR UTTERLY DEAD?

AND SUDDENLY WE

                                                     CUT TO:

MICHAEL'S POV


...as he enters his house.  He looks around in the darkness, one way and
another with his predatory gaze.  He moves to:

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS


Michael goes over to the cutlery rack.  He pulls out a knife.  The blade
catches light in a SPARK of brilliance and we

                                                     CUT TO:

A HUGE BLADE


SLASHING into FRAME --

INT. PARTY HOUSE - NIGHT


As a big kid in cheap Michael Myers costume LASHES OUT with a rubber knife,
striking one of the smaller kids, who feigns a dramatic death.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - NIGHT


Sara is looking at the family album curiously.

                              SARA
                Bill, come take a look at this.

There's no response.  She gets up and moves to the side door.

POV THROUGH ROOM

TO THE ADJOINING ROOM.  ALL WE SEE IS DARKNESS.

                              SARA
                Bill?

FOLLOW HER

AS SHE STEPS INTO THE NEXT ROOM -- WHICH, BY ITS STACKS OF ALBUMS,
COLLECTION OF DOLLS, AEROSMITH POSTERS ON THE WALLS, WE TAKE TO BE THE
HABITAT OF A TEENAGE GIRL CIRCA 1970S.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. BASEMENT STOREROOM - NIGHT


Jim and Donna cast their flashlights about the basement storeroom, with its
odd store of stuffed animals.

                              JIM
                Maybe this was his playroom.

                              Donna
                Yeah, I can see it now.  Little Michael Myers practicing on
                the family pets.

A tiny cascade of dry mortar tumbles loose from the wall.

                              JIM
                Check this out.

He is looking at an old brick wall sealing off a corner of the room.  The
bricks seem haphazardly set, the ancient mortar easily giving way under his
fingers.  He removes one brick, then another, and a few tumble free to the
floor.

                              DONNA
                What do you think's back there?

                              JIM
                I don't know, black magic shrine?  Maybe his parents were
                devil worshipers?

                              Donna
                Whose aren't?

She turns to shine her flashlight on the opposing wall --

AND A HAND COMES FREE FROM THE BRICK WALL BEHIND HER AND LANDS ON HER
SHOULDER.  DONNA SCREAMS AND HER FLASHLIGHT SWINGS WILDLY BACK AT THE
OPENING IN THE BRICKS --

ANGLE ON A FACE

STARING BACK AT THEM, LIPS PULLED BACK, GRIMACING IN DEATH.

                              DONNA
                Oh, my God -- !

WIDER ANGLE

AS SUDDENLY THE REST OF THE BRICKS COME TUMBLING LOOSE AS -- A DECOMPOSED
BODY CRASHES THROUGH AND LANDS ON THE FLOOR, THE HANDLE OF A HUGE KNIFE
STICKING OUT OF THE BACK --

DONNA SCREAMS, STARING AT THE MUMMIFIED CORPSE WITH PARCHED SKIN OVER
SUNKEN EYEHOLES, TEETH BARED IN FINAL TERROR.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE SAME SCENE


viewed on the giant PLASMA SCREEN at the party.

THE KIDS JUST SIT THERE RAPT, STUNNED INTO SPEECHLESSNESS.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie slaps his hand down on the console in excitement.

                              FREDDIE
                Yes!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT.  BASEMENT STOREROOM - NIGHT


Jim and Donna staring down at the macabre ancient corpse.

                              DONNA
                Jesus, this must be his first victim.

But Jim is looking at something curiously.

                              JIM
                Maybe not....

                              Donna
                What?

He reaches down to the corpse and turns it over -- and one of the arms
falls off.  He grabs it up and is on the move....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS -NIGHT


Sara walks down the HALL, flashlight in hand.

                              SARA
                Bill, where are you?

And SUDDENLY a FIGURE comes out of nowhere behind her --

SHE SCREAMS AND THE FIGURE JUMPS BACK --

TWO FLASHLIGHT BEAMS SWING WILDLY UNTIL WE SEE --

SARA AND RUDY

STARING AT EACH OTHER ACROSS DUELING FLASHLIGHTS.

                              SARA
                Jesus, you scared me.



                              rudy
                I scared you?  I got a feeling if I look in the mirror right
                now, I'm a white man.



                              SARA
                Where's Bill?

                              RUDY
                I thought he was with you.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE BASEMENT STOREROOM - NIGHT


Donna, only a few beats behind Jim, makes her way among the piles of old
junk when she drops her flashlight.  It rolls away in the dark.  She kneels
by an old sofa, feels under it.

POV ON HER

FROM SOMEONE WATCHING BEHIND A SUPPORT PILLAR.

ANGLE ON DONNA

AS SHE FINDS THE FLASHLIGHT AND STARTS FOR THE STAIRS.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE PLASMA SCREEN


at the kids' PARTY -- on which we see a dark figure DART OUT OF THE SHADOWS
and GRAB Donna.  There is a GLINT of steel, a quick muffled scream...and
they fall out of frame.

                              ERIC
                That was so bogus.

ANGLE ON MYLES

WATCHING THE SCREEN CURIOUSLY.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie is momentarily turned away from the monitors.

                              FREDDIE
                Charley?  Where the hell you at?

He shakes his head, turns back to the control panel.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT


...where we find Donna lying face down on the floor.  One eye stares out at
nothing, a pool of blood grows around her head.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT


Sara and Rudy moving down the HALLWAY when:

                              JENNA (O.S.)
                Hey, you guys!

ANGLE TO FIND

JENNA AT THE FAR END OF THE HALL, CARRYING SOMETHING.

                              SARA
                Jenna, where have you been?

She holds up a plastic-wrapped box.

                              JENNA
                It's an original Malibu Barbie!  You know how much these
                things are worth?

And SUDDENLY a large shape LUNGES out of a dark doorway behind her --

SARA SCREAMS AND JENNA TURNS -- JUST AS THE FIGURE RAISES THE HUGE BLADE IN
HIS HAND AND SLASHES IT DOWN TOWARD HER.

JENNA DUCKS OUT OF THE WAY AND DARTS DOWN THE HALL AS RUDY GRABS SARA'S
HAND AND THEY RUN FOR THE STAIRS.

FOLLOW THEM

RUNNING WILDLY DOWN THE STAIRS AS --

THE FIGURE

PURSUES THEM IN HIS PURPOSEFUL UNHURRIED GAIT.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE PLASMA SCREEN


where we watch the same scene.

INT. PARTY HOUSE - NIGHT


The kids cheer along with the action.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie is watching the MONITORS when there is a KNOCK at the door.  He
looks around.

                              FREDDIE
                Charley, where the fuck you at?

Cursing, he gets up and goes to the door and OPENS it.

ANGLE ON

DONALDSON STANDING THERE, HOLDING OPEN HIS WALLET I.D.

                              DONALDSON
                Mr. Harris, I'm Jeb Donaldson from the state po --

                              Freddie
                Yeah, real pleased to make your acquaintance, but I'm in the
                middle of something here -- did you say police?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT


Sara and Rudy reaching the front door.

                              RUDY
                (trying the doorknob)
                Fuck!  Who locked it?

                              SARA
                Back door through the kitchen!

They turn toward the kitchen just as a SHAPE comes out of the darkness and
GRABS Sara --

BUT JIM APPEARS OUT OF NOWHERE AND SWINGS SOMETHING AT THE FIGURE --
CATCHING HIM ON THE CHIN AND SENDING HIM SPRAWLING TO THE FLOOR.

THE WHITE MASK COMES FLYING OFF -- REVEALING BILL UNDERNEATH THE COSTUME.

                              JIM
                        (glaring down at him)
                I just wanna know.  Were you in on it from the beginning?

                              BILL
                Take it easy, dude, chill out.

Sara and Rudy look from Bill to Jim in confusion.

                              JIM
                Tell us, man.

Bill slowly gets to his feet, looks at the others.

                              BILL
                Hey, America loves a show.  We're giving them a show.

                              RUDY
                What the fuck is going on here?

Jim points down at the club he used on Bill.  It's an arm from the
"corpse."  In the FLASHLIGHT BEAM we see it's phony.

                              JIM
                        (to the others)
                It's fake.  We've been set up all along.

BEHIND THEM

WE NOTICE A SHAPE, MOVING UP THE STAIRS IN THE DARK....

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. PARTY - NIGHT


Where the kids look at each other.

                              STAN
                Busted.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


Jim and Bill are still facing off.

                              JIM
                How much extra are they paying you?

                              BILL
                Grow up, man.  How long do you think people would pay to
                watch us wandering around an old house trying to figure out
                why some guy went nuts twenty years ago?  Michael Myers is
                old news, man.  Half the guys on death row have a higher
                body count.

                              JIM
                So they figured they'd spice up the evening with a few cheap
                thrills.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT


Where we find Jenna still searching for a place to hide.  She looks up and
notices the pull-down ladder to the attic door.  She reaches up, grabs it
and gives it a yank --

ANGLE ON DOOR

AS IT POPS OPEN -- AND A BODY DROPS DOWN, HEAD FIRST, CATCHING BY ITS FEET.
 BRIAN'S DEAD FACE STARES BACK AT JENNA, UPSIDE-DOWN LIKE A SLAUGHTERED
ANIMAL, EYES STILL OPEN.

ANGLE ON JENNA

SCREAMING AT THE GRISLY SIGHT AS WE

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - FOLLOWING


They hear Jenna's scream.  Jim nods upstairs.

                              JIM
                All part of the show?

                              BILL
                Why don't you just chill, man.

                              SaRa
                You mean it's all fake?

                              BILL
                Makes for a more entertaining evening if the wayward son
                makes a return visit.  Especially if it's timed for Internet
                prime time.

                              RUDY
                There's an Internet prime time?

They all turn as

JENNA APPEARS

AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS, HER SHIRT COVERED IN BRIAN'S BLOOD.  SHE OPENS
HER MOUTH BUT CAN BARELY SPEAK.

WIDER ANGLE

AS THEY ALL LOOK UP AT HER.

                              JIM
                Good one, Jenna, you passed the audition.

Sara turns to Bill.

                              SARA
                Open the front door.

                              BILL
                I didn't lock it.

He goes over to the door, tries the knob --

ANGLE UPSTAIRS

AS A BLADE SUDDENLY SLASHES OUT BEHIND JENNA, CLEANLY SLICING THROUGH HER
NECK BEFORE SHE REALIZES IS.  HER HEAD SITS THERE FOR AN INSTANT -- TOPPLES
DOWN THE STAIRS ONE BUMP AT A TIME.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE PLASMA SCREEN


...as we see Jenna's HAT-CAM VIEW of the dizzying descent down the
stairs...until it reaches the floor and the HAT-CAM pops off, landing
inches away from her head and pointed back at her open dead eyes.

INT. PARTY - NIGHT


The kids stare at the plasma screen in amazement.

                              KYLE
                How the fuck did they do that?

                              KENNY
                Retractable blade, man.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie is looking in shock at Donaldson, not noticing the MONITOR on the
control panel.

                              FREDDIE
                When did it happen?

                              DONAldson
                Late last night.

                              Freddie
                Ah, man I just --

But he cuts himself short as he notices:

THE MONITOR

...AND THE WEIRD ANGLE LOOKING INTO JENNA'S EYES.

                              FREDDIE
                What the...?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT


The shape moving silently down the stairs while

ANGLE ON

THE FRONT DOOR, AS BILL GIVES UP ON THE JAMMED DOORKNOB.

                              SARA
                Let's just use the back door.

A hand

REACHES OUT OF THE DARK, FINDS BILL'S DROPPED MASK ON THE FLOOR.

THROUGH MICHAEL'S EYES

WE STUDY THE WHITE NOVELTY MASK CURIOUSLY FOR A MOMENT.  THEN HE LETS IT
FALL BACK TO THE FLOOR.

ANGLE ON STUDENTS

AS THEY HEAR A SOUND BEHIND THEM AND TURN.

SARA'S FLASHLIGHT BEAM RISES UP AND HITS

THE SHAPE

STANDING THERE IN THE WHITE MASK AND DARK JUMPSUIT.

WIDER ANGLE

AS THEY ALL TURN TO BILL -- WHO IS CLEARLY NOT WEARING THE MASK THIS TIME.
SUDDENLY THE KNIFE IN MICHAEL MYERS'S HAND THRUSTS UPWARD DEEP INTO BILL'S
ABDOMEN.

BILL STARES INTO THOSE DEAD EYES FOR ONE QUIZZICAL DISBELIEVING SECOND --
THEN MICHAEL LIFTS THE IMPALED MAN HIGH UP IN THE AIR AS

THE OTHERS

WATCH IN ONE MONSTROUS BEAT OF SHOCK -- THEN RUN ALL DIRECTIONS AS

MICHAEL DROPS

THE QUIVERING DYING BODY OF BILL TO THE FLOOR.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE MONITOR

WHERE WE WATCH AS SARA RUNS UP THE STAIRS, REACHING THE SECOND FLOOR
LANDING AND NEARLY STUMBLING OVER JENNA'S HEADLESS TORSO.

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Freddie finally realizing something is very wrong, jumping up and running
back toward the house, Donaldson a beat behind.

EXT. BACKYARD - NIGHT


The two men running out of the garage.

                              FREDDIE
                Back door's around the corner, I got the front.

The two men separate and we

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM - NIGHT


Sara SHUTS the door, TOPPLING a bookcase over to block it.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT


Rudy runs for the back door but KNOCKS OVER a baker's rack, blocking his
escape as

MICHAEL APPEARS

BEHIND HIM, STRIDING UNHURRIEDLY TOWARD HIM.

WIDER ANGLE

AS RUDY GRABS AN OLD ROLLING PIN AND SMASHES IT DOWN ON MICHAEL'S SHOULDER
AND MICHAEL'S KNIFE CLATTERS TO THE FLOOR.

RUDY RAISES THE ROLLING PIN AGAIN BUT THIS TIME MICHAEL'S HAND REACHES OUT
AND GRABS RUDY POWERFULLY BY THE THROAT AND DRAGS HIM OVER TO THE STOVE.

MICHAEL OPENS THE OVEN DOOR WITH HIS FREE HAND AND SHOVES RUDY'S HEAD
INSIDE -- THEN SMASHES THE DOOR DOWN AGAIN AND AGAIN ON RUDY'S HEAD,
TURNING IT TO PULP.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT


Sara looks around in desperation, her eyes finding the small NET-CAM set in
the corner of the room....

                                                     CUT TO:

THE PLASMA SCREEN


at the party as Sara looks INTO CAMERA.

                              SARA (STREAMING VIDEO)
                Somebody out there, please help us!  This is not something
                we planned.
                He's killing us!

Int. party - nIGHT


Myles looks at the others.

                              MYLES
                I don't think she's kidding.

JASON, one of the bigger kids, comes up in his face.

                              JASON
                Of course she is, you freak.  I bet you were one of those
                people who thought Mars was invading too.

                              MYLES
                I just know she wouldn't....

                              JASON
                What?  What wouldn't she do?

Myles and Scott trade looks.

                              SCOTT
                Tell him about Deckard, man.

Suddenly the bigger Jason comes up in Myles's face.

                              JASON
                Tell me what, freak?  Who invited you here, anyways?  And
                who the fuck is Deckard?

                              MYLES
                I know her, all right?  Online.  Deckard is my log-on name.

Jason looks at him a beat, then they all start laughing.

                              JASON
                Yeah, right.  You met her in a chat room for Masturbaters
                Anonymous.

                              MYLES
                        (to Scott)
                Let's go.

Scott looks at his friend, back at the party, the giant screen.

                              SCOTT
                Sorry, man.

Myles grabs his backpack to leave as the others turn back to

THE PLASMA SCREEN

WHERE SARA IS PLEADING TO THE INTERNET VIEWERS.

                              SARA (STREAMING VIDEO)
                Isn't there anyone out there who'll listen?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT


Michael looks around, finds the knife on the floor.  He starts back into
the house when we hear something and

ANGLE TO

THE BACK DOOR -- AS IT OPENS AND DONALDSON COMES CHARGING IN, PULLING HIS
PISTOL OUT OF A SHOULDER HOLSTER AS

MICHAEL SPINS

TOWARD HIM AND GRABS HIS GUN HAND.  DONALDSON LOOKS INTO MICHAEL'S EYES FOR
AN INSTANT AS MICHAEL TURNS THE GUN BACK TOWARD HIS CHEST AND FIRES -- AND
DONALDSON GOES FLYING BACK AGAINST THE WALL AND CRUMPLES TO THE FLOOR.

MICHAEL TURNS BACK INTO THE HOUSE.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BEDROOM - NIGHT


Sara spins around as she begins to hear FOOTSTEPS on the stairs...then in
the hall outside her door.  She quickly gets her palm pilot out of her bag
and turns back to the NET-CAM.

                              SARA
                Deckard, are you out there?

There is a BANG on the door behind her and we

                                                     CUT TO:

MYLES'S ROOM

AS HE QUICKLY ENTERS -- THEN NOTICES HIS COMPUTER SCREEN.

                              SARA (STREAMING VIDEO)
                Deckard, if you're there please let me know!

Myles almost trips lurching for his keyboard.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE SCREEN

ON SARA'S PALM PILOT, AS THE WORDS POP UP:


                DECKARD HERE.




                              SARA
                        (into NET-CAM)
                Deckard, oh God, this is for real!  Please.  Tell someone.
                He's killing people!

                                                     CUT TO:

THE PARTY


where the kids stare in stupefaction at the PLASMA SCREEN.

                              ERIC
                Holy shit.

Scott nods smugly, jumps up and does a victory dance.

                              SCOTT
                        (singing)
                He got the booty, he got the booty.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BEDROOM - NIGHT


Sara looks back at the door -- as it suddenly SHAKES violently as Michael
throws his weight against it.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S HOUSE - NIGHT


Myles runs down the stairs so fast he almost takes a header.

INT. LIVING ROOM - FOLLOWING


Myles's MOTHER looks over from the TV and his FATHER looks up from his
evening paper.

                              MOTHER
                Take it easy on the stairs, Myles.

                              MYLES
                Mom!  Dad!  You've got to listen!

                              FATHER
                I thought you came home to study.

                              MYLES
                Dad, people are being killed on the Internet.

                              FATHER
                Don't you have a math exam tomorrow?

Myles tries to calm himself and get their attention.

                              MYLES
                Dad, he's killing people.

                              FATHER
                What are you talking about?

A beat, as Myles steels himself for the inevitable.

                              MYLES
                I...logged onto a chat site.  And tonight we were watching
                the --

                              FATHER
                I see.

                              MYLES
                Dad, you can ground me till I'm fifty, but you've got to
                listen.  There are people being killed.

                              FATHER
                Are you aware of what day it is?

                              MYLES
                Of course, what does that -- ?

                              FATHER
                Have you ever heard of "Invasion From Mars"?  Orson Welles's
                radio broadcast of Halloween, 1939?

                              MYLES
                It was "War of the Worlds" and it was 1938 and this is no
                hoax.  Michael Myers has come back to Haddonfield.

                              FATHER
                I see.  You're grounded.  Until you're fifty.

Myles looks at his father another beat, then runs back upstairs.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BEDROOM - NIGHT


The BANGING on the door STOPS:  has he given up?

INT. HALL - NIGHT


Michael Myers notices something on the floor.  He reaches down.

                                                     CUT TO:

THE COMPUTER SCREEN


in MYLES'S ROOM -- as Michael Myers looks directly at us.  He is looking
INTO one of the dropped HAT-CAMS.

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


Freddie KICKING at the front door until it finally BURSTS open.

INT. HOUSE/CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS


Freddie running in, spotting Bill's body on the floor.

                              FREDDIE
                Oh, shit.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BEDROOM - NIGHT


Sara taking a tentative step toward the door as the message BEEP comes on
her palm pilot and the words jump on the screen:


                HE'S OUTSIDE THE DOOR!

                                                     CUT TO:

MYLES'S COMPUTER SCREEN


where we see Michael just on the other side of the door.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS BEDROOM - NIGHT


Where suddenly the door SHUDDERS as Michael throws his full weight into it.
 Sara grabs her palm pilot and runs to the window, opening it quickly.  She
climbs OUTSIDE just as the door BURSTS OPEN and Michael CHARGES inside in a
blind rage.

EXT. LEDGE - CONTINUOUS


Sara makes her way precariously along the narrow ledge, then hoists herself
up onto the sloping ROOF as BELOW HER

MICHAEL'S HEAD POPS OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.

BUT SHE IS ALREADY OUT OF VIEW AS SHE MOVES ALONG THE NARROW SPINE OF THE
ROOF AND OVER TO THE ATTIC WINDOW.  SHE TRIES TO OPEN IT BUT IT'S
LOCKED...SO SHE SMASHES THE GLASS WITH HER FOOT AND QUICKLY SLIPS INTO THE
ATTIC.

BELOW HER MICHAEL LOOKS UP AT THE SOUND OF THE BREAKING GLASS.

INT. ATTIC - FOLLOWING


Sara looks down as her palm pilot BEEPS with a message:


                CAN'T SEE YOU!

She thinks quickly, takes off her HAT-CAM, points it at herself.

                              SARA
                Deckard!  Where is he?

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - NIGHT


Myles looks at the grid of views on his computer screen.

                              MYLES
                        (as he types)
                Don't know!  Can't see him!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. ATTIC - NIGHT


A SHADOW crosses the window behind Sara and we

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - NIGHT


Myles grabs his phone while focused on his computer screen.

                              MYLES
                        (on phone)
                I need the Haddonfield, Illinois police department.  This is
                an emergency.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. ATTIC - NIGHT


Sara moves about in the DARK and STUMBLES over a pile of junk -- sending
her palm pilot clattering to the floor.

SHE CURSES, MAKING HER WAY TO THE LADDER, WHERE SHE HAS TO CLIMB OVER
BRIAN'S BODY, STILL HANGING THERE.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS


She runs down the hall --

UNTIL AN ARM REACHES OUT OF NOWHERE AND GRABS HER --

ANGLE TO FIND

FREDDIE STANDING THERE, COVERING HER MOUTH SO SHE CAN'T SCREAM.  HE LOOKS
BEHIND HER.

                              FREDDIE
                Where is he?

                              SARA
                I don't know.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - NIGHT


Where we find Myles intent on the phone.

                              MYLES
                No, this isn't a Halloween prank.  You've got to listen to
                me.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYERS HOUSE - NIGHT


Freddie and Sara move toward the stairs when SUDDENLY the hall window
BURSTS inward as a SHAPE come FLYING through it and Michael LANDS in front
of them, BLOCKING their escape.

BUT FREDDIE SUDDENLY LANDS A SIDE KICK TO MICHAEL'S CHEST -- SENDING
MICHAEL SPRAWLING BACK AGAINST THE WALL.

                              FREDDIE
                Weren't expecting me to kung fu your ass, were you?

Michael straightens and comes at Freddie again and this time Freddie lands
three quick fists to the torso and head and a SPINNING KICK --

BUT THIS TIME MICHAEL CATCHES FREDDIE'S ANKLE IN MID-KICK.

THEY STARE AT EACH OTHER A BEAT -- THEN FREDDIE JUMPS OFF HIS OTHER LEG AND
TWISTS IN THE AIR -- CATCHING MICHAEL ON THE CHIN -- AND THEY BOTH GO
CRASHING THROUGH THE DOOR INTO

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS


Michael slashes with his knife and Freddie CATCHES his hand and they
struggle wildly across the room --

SARA GRABS THE VENETIAN BLIND CORD -- JUMPS ONTO MICHAEL'S BACK.  MICHAEL
SPINS CRAZILY, SLASHING AT FREDDIE, TRYING TO GET SARA OFF HIS BACK -- AS
SARA WRAPS THE CORD AROUND MICHAEL'S NECK AND JUMPS OFF AS --

FREDDIE SPRINGS AT MICHAEL LIKE A LINEBACKER -- PROPELLING MICHAEL THROUGH
THE WINDOW IN AN EXPLOSION OF GLASS -- UNTIL THE VENETIAN BLINDS SNAP OUT
OF THEIR HOUSING AS

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


Michael PLUMMETS toward the ground until the venetian blinds get CAUGHT in
the window frame -- and Michael's body STOPS in mid-drop, the cord a taut
noose around his neck.

HIS BODY TWITCHES VIOLENTLY, ONCE, TWICE, THEN STOPS.

HE HANGS THERE, UNMOVING.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS


Freddie and Sara rush to the window and look OUTSIDE to see

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


Michael HANGING there, lifeless.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS


They look at each other, amazed they're still alive.

                              FREDDIE
                Let's get the fuck out of here.

Int. Hall - cONTINUOUS


They run out of the room and start down the hall --

AND A BASEBALL BAT COMES SWINGING DOWNWARD OUT OF THE DARKNESS -- CATCHING
FREDDIE ON THE SIDE OF THE HEAD AND DROPPING HIM LIFELESS TO THE FLOOR.

ANGLE ON

JIM STANDING THERE, HOLDING THE BAT.  HE LOOKS DOWN AT FREDDIE, REALIZING.

                              JIM
                Oh, shit.

But Sara is on the floor, feeling for a pulse.

                              JIM
                Is he dead?

                              SARA
                I don't know.  We've got to get help.

She straightens and they head quickly to the stairs.

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT


Where, outside the window, we see Michael's hanging body.  A moment, then:

HIS HAND TWITCHES...AND SLOWLY STARTS MOVING UPWARD, STILL HOLDING THE
KNIFE.

THE BLADE STARTS CUTTING THROUGH THE VENETIAN BLIND CORD.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT


Sara and Jim run for the front door --

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS


They make it out the door -- just as a figure DROPS DOWN in front of them
BLOCKING their path.

MICHAEL MYERS STANDS THERE, A FRAGMENT OF ROPE STILL DANGLING FROM HIS
NECK.

JIM SWINGS THE BASEBALL BAT IN ONE VICIOUS ARC -- CATCHING MICHAEL ON THE
HEAD AND SENDING HIM TO THE GROUND IN A HEAP.

JIM AND SARA LOOK AT EACH OTHER, WIDE-EYED.

                              JIM
                It's okay.  No way he's getting up after that.

Michael sits up and looks at them.  They look back at him.

JIM SWINGS THE BAT AGAIN, THIS TIME BRINGING IT STRAIGHT DOWN -- BUT
MICHAEL REACHES UP AND GRABS THE BAT IN MID-SWING.  HE STANDS UP.

JIM TRIES DESPERATELY TO FREE THE BAT FROM HIS GRIP -- UNTIL MICHAEL PUSHES
THE BAT BACK TOWARD JIM'S FACE -- HITTING HIM IN THE MOUTH WITH THE NARROW
END -- DRIVING THE BAT HANDLE INTO HIS MOUTH -- AND OUT THROUGH THE BACK OF
HIS HEAD.  JIM'S BODY QUIVERS A FEW INSTANTS, THEN HITS THE GROUND DEAD.

SARA STARES AT JIM'S BODY, AT MICHAEL, A BEAT OF UNSPEAKABLE HORROR -- THEN
TURNS AND RUNS BACK INTO THE HOUSE.

INT. HOUSE- CONTINUOUS


Sara runs through the LIVING ROOM and into the KITCHEN and out through the
back door into:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM- CONTINUOUS


Where she ducks down low behind the control panel.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - NIGHT


Myles slams down the phone in anger.  Then he gets an idea.  He picks up
the phone again and quickly hits redial.

                              POLICE DISPATCHER
                        (filtered)
                Haddonfield police emergency.

                              MYLES
                Officer down!  45 Lampkin Lane!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Sara hunches behind the control panel.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. MYLES'S ROOM - NIGHT


Myles is again at his computer, watching the GRID of VIEWS from around the
house.  Finally he can't take it anymore.  He gets up, grabs his jacket and
is out the door.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT


Myles's parents look up as he passes them in the living room.

                              MOTHER
                Myles?

But he is already out the front door.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. CONTROL ROOM -NIGHT


Sara remains crouched in the darkness, looking around desperately for a way
out.

ANGLE ON DOORWAY

AS MICHAEL APPEARS THERE.  HE STEPS INSIDE THE CONTROL ROOM.

ANHLE ON SARA

DUCKING DOWN ONLY YARDS AWAY.  WE HEAR MICHAEL'S FOOTSTEPS.

SHE LOOKS OVER AT:

ANGLE ON

THE MASS OF ELECTRIC CABLES FEEDING THE CONTROL PANEL....

                                                     CUT TO:

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT


Where we find Myles racing along on his bicycle.  He catches up to a
delivery truck, grabs onto the back bumper and lets the truck pull him
along as it speeds up.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


Michael's head twitches toward a sound deeper in the room.

BEHIND THE CONTROL PANEL

SARA FINDS THE MAIN INPUT CABLE AND PULLS IT FROM ITS SOCKET.

MICHAEL SPINS

TOWARD THE CONTROL PANEL AS HE HEARS HER.

SARA DUCKS

BACK DOWN BEHIND THE CONTROL PANEL WITH THE CABLE.  SHE PEERS BACK THROUGH
THE MASS OF WIRES AND CONNECTORS AS THE SHAPE MOVES TOWARD HER, HOMING IN
ON HIS TARGET LIKE A SHARK.

SHE LOOKS AROUND FRANTICALLY, NOTICING:

INSERT

CHARLEY'S GIANT CUP OF MOCHACCINO, AT THE EDGE OF THE PANEL.

SHE REACHES

ONE HAND QUIETLY UP TO GRAB THE CUP, THEN DUCKS BACK DOWN AS

MICHAEL MOVES

AMONG THE CABLES AND HARDWARE, KNIFE GLINTING IN HIS HAND.

ANGLE ON SARA

AS SHE QUIETLY SPILLS THE COFFEE IN A PUDDLE ON THE FLOOR, THEN TRIES TO
HIDE BACK BEHIND THE CONTROL PANEL AS SUDDENLY

MICHAEL APPEARS

ABOVE HER AND HIS KNIFE SLASHES VICIOUSLY DOWN TOWARD HER BUT HIS ARM GETS
CAUGHT IN THE WEB OF CONNECTING CABLES.

WIDER ANGLE

AS SARA TRIES TO SLIP BY HIM IN THE NARROW SPACE AS MICHAEL THRASHES ABOUT
IN THE CABLES, GETTING ENTANGLED, SPARKS FLYING AS HIS BLADE SLASHES
THROUGH WIRES AND CONNECTORS.

SARA POKES AT HIM WITH THE PRONGS OF THE ELECTRICAL WIRE, CATCHING HIM IN
THE TORSO AND CAUSING HIS BODY TO SPASM EVEN MORE VIOLENTLY AS THE KNIFE
SWINGS DOWN AT HER, MISSING HER BY INCHES.

FINALLY MICHAEL FREES HIMSELF AND COMES AFTER HER....

SARA BREAKS FOR THE DOOR, DROPPING THE CABLE INTO THE POOL OF COFFEE -- AS
MICHAEL LUNGES AT HER...THEN STIFFENS AS WE HEAR A CRACKLE.  SHE TURNS BACK
TO THE SIZZLING AND SPUTTERING.

MICHAEL STANDS STIFFLY IN THE POOL OF BLOOD, HIS BACK ARCHING RAMROD
STRAIGHT AS THE VOLTAGE COURSES THROUGH HIS BODY.  SMOKE POURS FROM THE
MASK EYEHOLES, UNTIL IT STARTS MELTING, MERGING WITH HIS FACE.

SARA WATCHES IN HORROR AND RELIEF AS FINALLY MICHAEL SLUMPS AS THE
ELECTRICITY SHORTS OUT IN AN EXPLOSION OF SPARKS, HIS BODY HELD UP BY THE
CABLES IN AN EERIE TABLEAU, ARMS SPREAD CRUCIFORM LIKE A DARK MESSIAH OF
THE NEW MILLENNIUM.

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. PARTY - NIGHT


The PLASMA SCREEN goes BLACK and everybody moans.

                              ERIC
                Hey!  Ripoff!

                                                     CUT TO:

INT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT


The hot electrical wires suddenly BURST into FLAME and quickly IGNITE the
ancient try timbers of the garage.

ANGLE ON SARA

TRYING TO RUN THROUGH THE OBSTACLE COURSE OF CABLE AND ELECTRONICS AND OLD
JUNK AS

ALL AROUND HER

FLAMING CHUNKS OF WOOD ARE FALLING AND BURSTING INTO NEW OUTBREAKS OF FIRE
--

THE DOOR IS BLOCKED BY A HEAP OF BURNING RUBBLE --

SHE LOOKS AROUND FRANTICALLY, TRAPPED UNTIL --

SUDDENLY A FOOT

CRASHES THROUGH THE BURNING WALL AND A HAND REACHES INSIDE --

                              MYLES (O.S.)
                Sara!

She reaches for the hand --

EXT. GARAGE/CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS


Myles PULLS her through the crumbling burning wall to safety and they fall
to the lawn.  In the distance, we finally hear the police and fire engine
SIRENS.

ANGLE ON GARAGE

NOW FULLY ENGULFED IN FLAMES, POPPING AND CRACKLING.

ANGLE ON

SARA AND MYLES WATCHING AS

THE GARAGE

FINALLY ERUPTS IN ONE FINAL SPASM OF FIRE -- THEN COLLAPSES IN ON ITSELF,
ON MICHAEL MYERS, IN A CONFLAGRATION SENDING FLAMES LEAPING HIGH INTO THE
NIGHT SKY.

ANGLE ON

SARA AND MYLES, AS SHE TURNS TO HIM, STILL OUT OF BREATH.

                              SARA
                I got one question.

                              MYLES
                What?

                              SARA
                Who the hell are you?

                              MyLES
                Well.  Um.  That might require some explaining....

                                                     CUT TO:

AERIAL VIEW

LOOKING DOWN ON THE MYERS HOUSE FROM THE VANTAGE POINT OF A NEWS
HELICOPTER.  BY NOW POLICE, FIRE, AND EMS VEHICLES ARE ALL AROUND,
ASSESSING THE CARNAGE.  WE MOVE DOWN TO

GROUND LEVEL

AND MOVE PAST DONALDSON, WHO'S LEANING AGAINST A POLICE CAR.  HIS SHIRT IS
UNBUTTONED AND WE SEE THE BULLETPROOF VEST UNDERNEATH.  ONE OF THE
HADDONFIELD COPS NODS AT THE VEST.

                              COP
                We were supposed to get those.

                              DonaldSON
                I highly recommend them.

CONTINUE MOVING

UNTIL WE FIND SARA, WRAPPED IN AN EMS BLANKET SITTING ON THE GROUND BESIDE
MYLES.  HE LOOKS AT HER, SHRUGS.

                              MYLES
                I guess you were probably expecting somebody, you
                know...taller.

                              SaRA
                Well, I was accepting somebody who shaved.

                              MYLES
                It's not like I won't.  Eventually.

                              SARA
                Actually, it's pretty funny.

                              MYLES
                It is?

                              SARA
                My roommate said you were probably fifty and bald.

He grins, rubs his head.

                              MYLES
                Got lots of hair.

                              SARA
                Hey.

                              MyLES
                What?

                              SARA
                You still haven't told me.  Is Deckard your real name?

                              MyLES
                You'll think I'm lame.

                              SARA
                No, I won't.

                              MYLES
                He's the hero in "Blade Runner."  It's my favorite movie.
                My real name's Myles.  Berman.

                              SARA
                Well, Myles Berman, I think I owe you a Mochaccino.

Their voices slowly FADE OUT as we start MOVING AWAY from the
backyard...and edge up into the deep black night sky.

                                                    DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. MYERS YARD - PRE-DAWN


Firemen sift through the SMOKING rubble of the garage.

A SMALL CROWD

OF ONLOOKERS WATCHES FROM BEHIND POLICE BARRICADES, AMONG THEM PARENTS WITH
KIDS STILL DRESSED IN HALLOWEEN REGALIA.

WE FIND DONALDSON

IN THE MIDDLE OF THE RUINS, SEARCHING, SEARCHING.

ANGLE ON

ONE OF THE FIREMEN, SHAKING HIS HEAD.

                              FIREMAN
                Nothing here....

Donaldson looks over at him.

                              DONALDSON
                Is it possible there's nothing left of him?  That he just
                burned up?

                              FireMAN
                No way.  Takes three hours at fifteen hundred degrees to
                cremate a body, and you'll still find bone fragments.

                              DonalDSON
                Then he's got to be in here.

GO CLOSER

TO DONALDSON AS HE CONTINUES THE SEARCH WITH INTENSITY, MOVING AMONG THE
CHARRED RUINS.  HE LIFTS ONE FRAGMENT OF WOOD THEN ANOTHER, FINDING
NOTHING.  WITH A STRANGE DESPERATION HE SQUATS DOWN TO PRY A BLACKENED BEAM
LOOSE -- BUT THERE IS NOTHING UNDERNEATH BUT MORE EMBERS.

SUDDENLY HE HEARS A CRUNCH FROM BEHIND HIM AND TURNS --

AND MICHAEL MYERS

IS STANDING BEHIND HIM WITH KNIFE UPRAISED --

DONALDSON FALLS

BACK INTO THE ASHES AS WE GO

WIDER TO REVEAL

IT'S JUST A KID IN MICHAEL MYERS COSTUME WHO SOMEHOW GOT PAST THE POLICE
LINE.  HIS FATHER GRABS THE RUBBER KNIFE OUT OF HIS HAND AND SCURRIES HIM
AWAY.

TIGHT ON DONALDSON

STILL CATCHING HIS BREATH, SPOOKED.

THEN HE LOOKS OVER AND FINDS

ANOTHER MICHAEL MYERS

STANDING BEHIND A POLICE CAR.

AND ANOTHER ONE

STANDING NEAR A TREE.

ANGLE ON DONALDSON

AS HE LOOKS THIS WAY AND THAT AS

SUDDENLY EVERYWHERE

WE SEE MICHAEL MYERS, ALL AROUND US, A SERIES OF MASKS, WHITE FACES AND
DARK JUMPSUITS IN THE CROWD, ON THE STREET.  IS ONE OF THEM REAL?  IS HE
ESCAPING IN A SEA OF IMITATORS?

A WIDENING CIRCLE

FINDS ONE FACE.  THEN ANOTHER.  AND ANOTHER.

ALL AROUND US.

THEN SUDDENLY NOTHING.  NOTHING.

                                                     HARD CUT
                                                     TO BLACK.

                                   THE END











